narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM
 The room is dingy. Unkempt. The camera sits on the bed, on its side, facing the door. We can hear someone moving around off screen.
 The door handle clicks; someone's trying it.
 Then nothing. Then, suddenly, loud pounding on the door.
 Andrew's voice is scratchy and prone to cracking.
 He speaks with a rushed mix of fear and anxiety.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What do you want, I'm getting ready for school-」

narrator:MR. DETMER (O.S.) Why is the door locked, unlock this fucking door right now.
 The bed stirs as Andrew sits down.
 MR. DETMER (O.S.) I said unlock this door. UNLOCK THE DOOR. OPEN THE DOOR, NOW.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You're drunk-」
narrator:MR. DETMER (O.S.) Listen, you don't tell me- IF I'M DRUNK, OR-
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) It's seven thirty. In the AM. You're drunk, dad, that's crazy-」
narrator:MR. DETMER (O.S.) What're you doing in there.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I'm filming this.」
narrator:MR. DETMER (O.S.) What?
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I bought a camera. I'm filming all your shit from now on. 2.」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - SANDRA DETMER'S ROOM
 Equally dingy. SANDRA DETMER, gaunt and sickly, is sat up in bed. Andrew's filming her. She's clearly very ill, speaking in a weak rasp. Andrew now holds the camera.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Mom? Will you say hi to the camera?」
SANDRA DETMER:「Who's the audience?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) The millions of people watching at home.」
SANDRA DETMER:「Hello world. Do I look awful?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, you look great.」
SANDRA DETMER:「I've been looking a little better, yeah?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oh yeah, definitely.」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oh, yeah, thanks.」
narrator:CUT.
 They're driving.
MATT:「So...Should I ask about the camera, or-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I'm filming things now. I'm filming everything.」
MATT:「You're filming everything.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) For my mom. I'm trying to get custody of her from my dad. She's getting worse, and he's not...helping, and this way, in case something goes down-」
MATT:「He gets violent or whatever-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Right, it'd be evidence.」
MATT:「Evidence. But you're not with him right now, but you're filming this.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Well, yeah, to add context.」
MATT:「Context.
 Andrew, you are...a weird dude.」
narrator:CUT.
MATT:「Did you ever read any Auguste Comte?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What is that?」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) For school?」
MATT:「He's just like- his whole thing is about being positive and like, taking up for yourself. You should read him, maybe, it might make you feel- you know, improve your outlook.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Yeah, right.」

narrator:EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - PARKING LOT
 Andrew's getting out of the car, but then ducks back in to see Matt lighting a pipe.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Are you not coming in?」
MATT:「I'm gonna blaze a little first, yeah?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You're going to miss first period-」
narrator:Matt turns on the radio, loud.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Okay, okay.」
narrator:INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - HALLWAY
 Andrew's filming himself putting stuff in his locker, and does a quick sweep of the crowded school hallway.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) This is my school, I guess.
 This is the hallway-」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) ...yeah-」
narrator:GIRL Every vote counts.
 Andrew films the flyer for a moment, brightly colored and featuring a picture of a smiling Steve Kazinsky, before something yanks the camera away.
 For the first time we see ANDREW Detmer, 17, pale, awkward and gangly, with long, stringy hair and thin, scraggly beard. He looks anxious, if not afraid.
 BRYCE (O.S.) Yo this camera is a piece of shit. It's like from 2004 or some shit.
 WAYNE, 17, big and hateable in his Ed Hardy T-shirt, appears wrapping his arm roughly around Andrew.
 WAYNE Hey, how do I look? (starts muscle posing) Like this? Ooh, that's good.
 Like this? That's sexy, right?
Andrew Detmer:「Bryce, gimme my camera back-」
narrator:BRYCE (O.S.) Fuck you Andrew, shut up.
 This camera's a piece of shit.
 WAYNE You got me, let's go. Wayne turns and knocks everything out of Andrew's locker. Bryce starts to walk away with the camera.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Hey, Bryce, come on, give it back-」

narrator:The camera is set down on the ground, and then abruptly kicked back to Andrew. He picks it up, checking on it.
Andrew Detmer:「(quietly, sad) Oh come on... 6.」

narrator:EXT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - FOOTBALL FIELD
 A view from the bleachers as the soccer team practices. The cheerleaders are practicing too. We cut: a different view, lower.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) This is where I eat lunch, out here on the bleachers.」
narrator:CUT.
 LATER.
 The camera's next to Andrew as he's eating, down on the bench. A CHEERLEADER approaches.
 CHEERLEADER Hi.
Andrew Detmer:「Hey-」
narrator:CHEERLEADER Could you not videotape us, please? It's really fucking creepy.
Andrew Detmer:「I wasn't, videotaping you, so much as I was just-」
narrator:CHEERLEADER
 ANDREW Just don't videotape-
 -you know, filming what I do during the-
 CHEERLEADER Don't videotape us, okay, or we'll call security. We see you watching us, we're not stupid, and it's sketchy, so back off.
Andrew Detmer:「okay.」
narrator:CHEERLEADER Is it on right now?
Andrew Detmer:「Yes.」

narrator:INT. MATT'S CAR
 Matt's driving.
 Andrew's filming from the passenger seat.
MATT:「There's a party tonight.
 A barn party at Haven Hills.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I thought Haven Hills was closed.」
MATT:「It's abandoned, yeah. That's why it's a good place for a party. Two kegs.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Why are you telling me?」
MATT:「You wanna go? I don't wanna go alone.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) ...Nah...」
MATT:「When was the last time you went to a party?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't like parties.」
MATT:「You're a senior.
 Just come, you'll have fun. ANDREW (O.S.) I'll think about it.
 Okay, right. Andrew, can I give you like, a pro tip?」
Andrew Detmer:「Yeah?」
MATT:「Keep the camera at home.
 It's weird.」
Andrew Detmer:「It has a purpose- 8.」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM
 The camera lays on Andrew's bed again, filming the room. Andrew is on his laptop at a desk, working.
Andrew Detmer:「I'm uploading what I shot today...you have to keep a back-up, you know.」

narrator:EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - NIGHT
 We're in Matt's car, driving on a dark dirt road, past an old fence and rusted out farm equipment.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Are you sure it's here? (beat) Are you sure it's here, this all looks closed-」
MATT:「It's here, calm down.
 Listen.」
narrator:We can faintly hear party music.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oh yeah.」

narrator:EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - BARN
 Cars are parked outside a big abandoned barn as Matt and Andrew approach. We see Christmas lights strung up, and there's clearly a party going on inside the barn. Kids are milling about outside, too, drinking, fucking around.
MATT:「Hey dude, don't follow me around all night.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What?」
MATT:「Don't follow me around all night, okay?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What am I supposed to do? I thought you said you didn't want to go alone- 10.」

MATT:「Talk to people?
 Have a beer, I don't know.」
narrator:MONTAGED FOOTAGE...
 Andrew skulks around the party, which is clearly in full swing. Lots of bad footage of people talking, drinking, girls dancing sexy, guys joking around. Andrew is silent and detached, just filming. He sees a girl, CASEY Letter, 16, filming as well. They shout over the music.
CASEY:「Hey, what are you filming for?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oh, I don't- just filming.」
CASEY:「What?
 I'm filming for my blog!」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What?」
CASEY:「I have a video blog!
 Why are you filming?」
narrator:Andrew simply backs away. More footage of the party. AUSTIN, 18, in an Ed Hardy shirt, comes out of nowhere.
 He's clearly a little drunk.
 AUSTIN Hey, were you filming my girlfriend? Yes or no, were you filming my girlfriend?
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, I wasn't filming anyone specific, just filming the party.」
narrator:AUSTIN (beat) Okay, good, because I don't wanna have to beat your ass.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Okay.」

narrator:AUSTIN Don't talk back to me. Don't get smart, okay, I'm being nice here. I'm being nice to you. (MORE) 11. AUSTIN (beat) Say okay.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Okay-」

narrator:EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - EDGE OF THE WOODS
 Andrew's out alone in a field now, furiously cleaning the lens of the camera, obstructing our view. Cut to a few moments later; the camera now resting in his lap or on the ground. We can see the barn, the party still going on.
 After a few moments, we can faintly hear Andrew crying.
STEVE:「O.S.) (loud, sudden) Are you Andrew?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (startled) What- STEVE Are you Andrew-with-the-camera? (beat) Matt's cousin, Matt said you had a camera?」
narrator:The camera is picked up to reveal STEVE "Kaz" Kazinksy, 17, approachably handsome and in great shape, with an easygoing, instantly likeable charisma.
 He's a little drunk and giddy.
STEVE:「Dude, are you okay?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I'm Andrew. 12.」

STEVE:「I'm Steve Kazinsky-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, I know.」
STEVE:「yeah?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Everybody knows who you are.」
STEVE:「Haha, yes, that is true. Listen, come on, bring the camera.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What?
 I don't-」
STEVE:「Come on.」
narrator:Steve starts off, but Andrew hesitates.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't-」

narrator:EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - FIELD
 Steve is walking ahead in the field of tall grass, toward woods. It's rather dark. ANDREW (O.S.) Look, I don't think we're supposed to-
STEVE:「Is there a light on that?
 On your camera?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oh, I don't- Hm, I don't know-」

narrator:They've reached the woods, and Steve is climbing over the remains of a fence. The light bounces around wildly.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What were you guys doing out here? This is way out-」
STEVE:「Me and your cousin were blazing a little.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Matt's out here?」
STEVE:「A bunch of people were out here, but I think they've all gone back, now, cause we're like, obsessed with the thing.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) The what?」
narrator:CUT.
 They're in the woods now, thick and dizzying. It's near silent but their feet crushing the Fall leaves on the ground. Steve walks out ahead.
STEVE:「Andrew Detmer, that's right.
 I remember you from homeroom, Freshman year.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You remember that? STEVE Yeah, I have a memory for faces. I'm gonna go into politics, which is ironic because I'm soooo fucking high right now- probably shouldn't be letting you videotape this-
 O.S.) I'm gonna be so rich when you're president, you have no idea-」

MATT:「O.S.) Down here!」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Matt?」
narrator:The camera turns to reveal Matt, standing next to some kind of craggy hole in the ground, at the base of a hill in the woods. It's big, but the darkness beyond is impenetrable to the camera. It looks like a big black spot.
STEVE:「There we go. There it is.」
narrator:CUT.
 Andrew and Steve are now down with Matt by the hole. Andrew is keeping the camera fixed squarely on the murky blackness, nervous.
STEVE:「V.O.) Where is everybody?」
MATT:「They all left.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) We're not supposed to be out here.」
STEVE:「Is it still making the sound?」
MATT:「Yeah.
 Did you tell Andrew?」
STEVE:「Oh, Andrew, it's making a sound-」
MATT:「Here, listen.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Guys-」
STEVE:「You've got to get really close to hear it.」
narrator:Andrew takes a tentative step towards the hole.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Guys, just don't like- don't push me, or do anything like that- 15.」

STEVE:「O.S.) You've got to go closer.
 Like almost inside it.」
narrator:There's a beat.
MATT:「We're not going to push you, we just wanna get it on tape.」
narrator:Another pause. Andrew moves towards the hole. Even with Nightvision, it's completely dark in there. A beat.
STEVE:「O.S.) Do you hear it?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) ...It's like, whispering?」
STEVE:「O.S.) Listen.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Singing?」
MATT:「O.S.)
 STEVE (O.S.) Ooooh shiiiiit-
 That is so fucking creepy!」
narrator:Andrew turns the camera back to Matt and Steve.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What is that?」
STEVE:「We didn't dig the hole, man. MATT Is the sound on the camera?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't know, probably...I mean, it's- it's kinda loud, right?」
narrator:Matt looks to Steve.
STEVE:「Do you guys wanna go in and have a look, or what-」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, I don't- I mean, I won't do th-」

narrator:Steve suddenly goes right into the hole, vanishing into the darkness.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Hey, wait-」

narrator:INT. THE HOLE
 It's almost pitch black, but we can hear Andrew breathing. It's claustrophobic in here. Eerily quiet. The camera searches around, but the walls are tight in here, and low.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Hello-」
narrator:STEVE
 ANDREW (O.S.) (suddenly appearing)
 Aah! I'm right here.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Does it go down much deeper, or-」
STEVE:「Yeah, really far. It's not a cave, it's like a tunnel- do you hear how loud that's getting?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Do you think it could be like wind, or-」
STEVE:「Come on, man. Come on.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Then what do you think it is? 17.」

STEVE:「Huh. I dunno. I don't believe in ghosts.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Who said anything about ghosts.」
narrator:Steve laughs, and turns, going back into the darkness. Andrew follows.
 CUT.
 Matt's face is suddenly in front of the camera.
MATT:「shouldn't have come in here.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Steve's up ahead-」
MATT:「At first I thought this was a solutional cave, but now...I dunno, it's like a lava tube, or something.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't know what you're talking about.」
MATT:「Look at the walls. Look at how smooth they are. It's just straight shot down, I mean, we must've already gone forty or fifty feet- ANDREW (O.S.) Don't talk about it, you're making me nervous.
 You ever hear of Plato's allegory of the cave?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No.」

narrator:Walking. Darkness. The cave is even tighter now. The light flickers, some kind of electrical disturbance, then goes out completely We hear Andrew curse, fumbling with it, and the nightvision mode comes on.
 CUT.
 The nightvision is scrambling badly.
 All the forms are distorted and then-
STEVE:「O.S.) Can you believe this, this is NUTS-」
narrator:The nightvision is turned off, revealing Matt. They've come into a larger chamber in the cave, one somehow lit from within; the boys are bathed in a softly pulsing turquoise glow.
 They speak loudly, clearly talking over something we can't hear.
MATT:「Is that, is that showing up on the camera?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't wanna film it, it's messing with the camera-」
narrator:Matt forcibly turns the camera, to reveal Steve standing next to some kind of massive crystalline rock structure growing from, or maybe embedded in, the wall. Around it, and him, float wispy little clouds of light, turquoise and beautiful.
 Steve is clearly entranced, sweeping his hands through the light. STEVE Touch one!
 We see Matt, now also surrounded by the little aurora borealis like clouds, touch one; it comes apart in a silent little explosion of light, beautiful.

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Guys maybe...maybe we shouldn't...」

narrator:Andrew is now very near to the crystalline structure; viewed up close, it's almost arachnid, organic somehow. The light clouds have turned yellow. Matt is practically inside the structure, pressing it with his palms.
MATT:「changes color, see? It must be reacting to the heat, some kind of exothermic reaction-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) WHAT? I can't hear you over the- you know-」

MATT:「Ready?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Rolling, yeah.」

narrator:Andrew smiles, and points to the suspended ball.
 A trickle of blood comes out of his nose.
Andrew Detmer:「Ah, shit.」

narrator:INT. MATT'S KITCHEN
 Steve is very intently using his newfound powers to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, knife shakily moving over bread. The camera is set down on the counter, Matt and Andrew watching.
Andrew Detmer:「The trick is to pretend like it's on a plate. You get it on the plate and then you wrap the plate around it, and you can move it however you want.」

Andrew Detmer:「Yeah?
 Plate's easier for me.」

narrator:INT. MATT'S ROOM - LATER
 Matt's room is covered in band posters, kind of a mess. Matt's sitting on the floor by a desk, slowly assembling a LEGO set with his telekinetic abilities. Andrew's filming from the bed, where he's laying down.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Try to imagine that your squeezing the entire piece in your hand.」
MATT:「That's what I'm doing, it's just, it's hard. You're better at this than me, you do it.」
Andrew Detmer:「mocking) Really? Andrew points at the lego set, and it flies together.」

narrator:SAMANTHA (ON PHONE) I know you're over at that guy Matt's house right now, okay, cause they said you didn't show up for soccer practice, but you said the only reason you couldn't come see Bound By Love with me was because of soccer practice, so...You know, I just, I don't know what to think. I feel like we never hang out anymore, you've just been hanging out with those two guys for the last like three weeks, and I...ugh, call me back.
STEVE:「What would you suggest, as like, a course of action for me, here?」
MATT:「Why are you asking US for advice on girls?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Because we're his mistress.」

narrator:INT. STEVE'S CAR - NIGHT
 Steve is driving Andrew home.
STEVE:「new camera's working out for you, that's good. CUT.
 I have to admit, though, I don't understand the filming thing.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I told you, it's just my thing for right now.」
STEVE:「You don't feel like it's a little weird? Like it puts a barrier between you and everything?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Maybe I want a barrier. 24.」

STEVE:「Okay.
 I respect that.」
narrator:CUT.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) My dad is actually a fireman, or was, I don't know. He got injured like two years ago, and now they just pay him out of, like, insurance. He doesn't do anything, I mean he goes out during the day, but I don't know where. He drinks a lot.」
STEVE:「So how do you pay for your shit?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I do computer repair, and stuff.
 I actually make a lot of money...」
STEVE:「What about your mom.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) My mom has spinal meningitis, she's- she can't work or anything, and the insurance doesn't cover all of her medicine, so a lot of my money has to go into that. I figure if I get enough on camera, maybe I can, I dunno, get custody of her or something.」
narrator:Steve mulls this over. CUT.
STEVE:「I've actually been having some problems with my parents, too.」
Andrew Detmer:「V.O.) Yeah?」

STEVE:「They've just been fighting a lot. I think my mom is cheating on my dad.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) ...That's intense.」
STEVE:「Yeah. I know. I'm actually, yeah, I'm sure my mom is cheating on my dad.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) How-」
STEVE:「I just, you know, I saw some stuff. It's weird, you don't think about your parents as like...people, or whatever. I don't know.」
narrator:The two guys drive in silence.
STEVE:「Don't tell anybody about that-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Haha no of course, no way.」

MATT:「Weights, like-」
STEVE:「Free-weights, a barbell. I got up to two hundred pounds before I bled.」
MATT:「So it's, yeah, this is my theory- it's like a vagina. Like it's elastic, but if you stretch it too far too quick it'll tear-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Ew-」
MATT:「And that's why we're getting better. We're loosening up.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Couldn't that metaphor just be for any muscle in the human body, like working out or-」
STEVE:「No, I like braingina.
 Braingina is the shiiiiit.」
narrator:Steve floats up a bunch of chips from his bag, and then rapid fires them into his mouth.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I think it's time we took this out of the backyard. Matt and Steve look confused.」

narrator:Matt and Steve are walking in, Andrew lagging behind filming.
STEVE:「Just stay back a little ways, yeah-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I got it.」

narrator:INT. WAL-MART
 The guys are trying to stay out of sight, looking down an aisle where shoppers stand.
STEVE:「O.S.) That girl, with the cart.」
narrator:A frumpy woman with a shopping cart suddenly starts pulling on the cart. It suddenly breaks away from her, and goes careening down the aisle by itself, her chasing after it. We can hear the guys cracking up, trying to stay quiet.
MATT:「O.S.) She's chasing- she's chasing it-」
narrator:CUT.
 Toy aisle. A toddler is looking at teddy bears.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I got this. One of the teddy bears suddenly comes to life, waving at the little boy. The little boy is wowed. The teddy bear suddenly takes off and flies through the air. Again the stifled laughter.」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Umm... (camera finds the guy) Got him.」

narrator:EXT. FIELD - SUNSET
 Matt sits on the hood of a car.
 He and Andrew are flinging rocks with their powers.
MATT:「That was a good one, you got that one far.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Hey Matt. (beat) Do you like me?」
MATT:「What? (beat) Sure, yeah. I mean, I didn't, always-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Why not?」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You're an asshole.」
MATT:「See, that's what I'm saying. You're hostile, man.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (beat) You know, you...If you hadn't invited me to that party, none of this would've happened.」
MATT:「Yeah.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Thanks.」

narrator:INT. MATT'S CAR - AFTERNOON - WAL-MART PARKING LOT
 None of the guys are visible.
 They're filming a woman park her car.
STEVE:「O.S.) I just always feel like I miss stuff.」
MATT:「O.S.) We were just sitting around throwing rocks, it was nothing.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Yeah, until all those chicks showed up.」
STEVE:「O.S.) What?
 Shut up.」
MATT:「O.S.) Okay, here we go, here we go.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Are you sure there's no one around-」

narrator:EXT. WAL-MART - PARKING LOT - SHORTLY THEREAFTER
 Matt is sitting against the car with a wad of kleenex on his nose, soaked with blood. Steve is leaning nearby, with a brown paper napkin.
MATT:「beat) My braingina is having like a...face period. STEVE Yeah, you got some from your ears, too. You've gotta start working it out more, Matt.
 Yeah man, in between my yoga.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You just need focus, Matt.」
MATT:「Ha.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You're lucky you got the kleenex, I'm stuck with the taco bell wrapper. 31.」

narrator:INT. MATT'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER
 Matt's driving, Steve's shotgun, Andrew filming from the back. It's raining.
MATT:「sfucking insane, we just changed her life. We did-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Her face, I can't get her face out of my head.」

STEVE:「He's like right on your bumper, too.」
narrator:Matt rolls down the window and gives the signal to pass. More honking.
MATT:「Can you fucking believe this guy?」
STEVE:「He's just some asshole redneck, look at him. He's fucking with us.」
narrator:They are driving out over a bridge in the woods.
MATT:「I don't know what to do, what should I-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (laughing) Here, take the camera, take the camera.」
narrator:He hands off the camera to Steve; now we see Andrew sitting in the back seat. Behind him, through the back window, we can see a pick-up truck, honking, way too close.
Andrew Detmer:「Abracadabra.」

narrator:EXT. THE BRIDGE
 The camera is being held loosely at Steve's side; everything's upside-down, and we can't see anything, but can hear the guys are clearly freaked out.
MATT:「O.S.) What the fuck did you do, man, what the fuck-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I didn't mean to, I didn't- 33.」

MATT:「O.S.) Fuck! SHIT! What's wrong with you, look at this, fuck!」
STEVE:「O.S.) Is he still in there? If he's in there we have to get him out-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Guys, just calm down, I'm sorry, okay-」
STEVE:「O.S.) Fuck that, take your fucking camera.」
narrator:The camera is shoved to Andrew's chest, and lingers there a moment before he brings it up to show a view off the bridge; the truck is already sinking in the water fifteen or so feet below. We tilt up to see Steve taking off his jacket.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You don't have to- I mean I can-」

narrator:INT. MATT'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER Andrew's filming Matt, who looks angry as he drives very quickly.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Are you mad?」

narrator:Steve has the guy on the shore.
 He's dazed and bleeding.
 REDNECK ASSHOLE -what happened, cause...I don't know....my truck, my truck...
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Is he okay?」
narrator:Steve just stares directly at Andrew.
 Andrew pans to reveal Matt, on a cell phone.
MATT:「Yes, just past White Crescent bridge. Down by the- yes-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Is that the cops, are you calling the cops?」

narrator:EXT. STADIUM PARKING LOT - NIGHT
 Matt looks FURIOUS, while Steve just looks uncomfortable and freaked out. Matt's car is parked nearby.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't see how you guys can be so angry-」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) He was being an asshole- he- I didn't mean to-」
MATT:「Which part of that do you mean, do you mean he was being an asshole, or was it an accident? Was it an accident, Andrew, cause you're the strongest. Listen, with this, we can't fuck around, ever.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Then what've we been doing, we've been fucking around-」
MATT:「NOT LIKE THAT, ANDREW. That's- you can't use it on people, or hurt people like- Steve, help me out.」
narrator:Steve seems lost for words.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I-」
MATT:「We need rules, okay. Rule #1, you can't use it on living things. Rule #2, you can't use it when you're angry-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You can't just declare rules, you're not- MATT I will fucking declare rules, okay? If we keep going, and getting stronger, we need rules. We need rules. (beat) Damn it Andrew turn off the cam-」

narrator:INT. MATT'S CAR - STEVE'S STREET
 Andrew's filming Matt from shotgun.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Did he say what it was about?
 When he called, what did he say?」
narrator:Matt's quiet.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Are you still mad at me?」
MATT:「I'm not mad.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (beat) You seem mad.」
MATT:「Power corrupts, is all I'm saying, man.」
Andrew Detmer:「What does that even mean?」
MATT:「I just mean that we have to think about things more now, okay? We can't just DO things, we have to think first.」
Andrew Detmer:「I understand. 37.」

narrator:EXT. STEVE'S HOUSE - MORNING
 The house is big and nice, somewhat isolated.
 Matt is walking up ahead of Andrew to the door.
STEVE:「O.S.) Hey kids.」
narrator:Matt stops, and both Matt and Andrew look around.
MATT:「Steve?
 Where are you?」
narrator:CUT.
 Steve is atop a power line pole, thirty feet in the air. Andrew and Matt look up at him from the ground.
STEVE:「Just try it, it's easy.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) That doesn't look easy.」
STEVE:「You throw yourself at the ground. You just fall, and catch yourself, and then it's easy, I swear. Don't try to jump or you'll flip yourself. CUT.」
narrator:Matt hurls himself at the ground, WHAM. Cut, and again, WHAM. Cut, and this time he flips himself BAM WHAM.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Let me try-」

narrator:Andrew throws himself forward.
 And stops, hanging in mid air.
Andrew Detmer:「Whoaaaamygod...whoaaa...」

MATT:「It's about aerodynamics! If I put a barrier just in front of me, I can go way faster, cause it cuts wind resistance!」
STEVE:「O.S.) I can't hear a damn thing you're saying!」
MATT:「Yeah!
 Definitely!」
narrator:CUT.
 Steve and Matt are seen flying around, Steve further away, near a large cloud bank. Matt is using his abilities to shape cloud fluff into an M. There is a humming, rattling sound, slightly audible even over the deafening wind.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Guys, do you hear that?」
narrator:Neither of the guys can hear him. Steve however stops in the distance, looking around. He shouts something, inaudible.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What?
 I can't hear you!」

STEVE:「You saved
 my life, dude! Andrew, you saved
 my fucking life! Is that- Holy shit
 is that the camera?! You AND THE CAMERA!? caught me」
Andrew Detmer:「exhausted) Y- yeah-」

MATT:「I CAN FUCKING FLY!」
narrator:Andrew cheers from behind the camera, and Steve laughs.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I CAN FLY!」

narrator:EXT. STEVE'S HOUSE - POOL - NIGHT
 Steve, Matt and Andrew are sitting around the pool outside of Steve's house; empty beers are all around. All three are at least tipsy.
 Matt is up.
MATT:「Yo Andrew, Andrew, gimme a beat.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (flatly) No.」

narrator:INT. STEVE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER
 The guys are in that sleepy mode, now. Andrew's filming, but not really focusing on anything. Matt's sprawled out on a couch opposite him. Steve's in a chair nearby.
MATT:「But how does she not notice?」
STEVE:「Well, I mean, she notices that it's gotten better, definitely. You just have to be subtle.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) That's so cool. Doesn't that count as breaking rule #1 though?」
STEVE:「Pfff, technicalities. MATT Man, I haven't had sex since like...a year.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I haven't had sex since ever.」

narrator:Later. Drowsier. Light's coming from the TV. The camera is laying haphazardly on Andrew. They're all nearly asleep, drowsy drunk.
MATT:「Hey guys, are you up?」
STEVE:「Yeah.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) YO.」
MATT:「Today was like...the best day of my life. Like I was thinking and I can't think of any day I liked better than today.」
narrator:There's a silence.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Yeah.」

narrator:EXT. HAVEN HILLS FARM - THE CLEARING - MORNING
 Time has passed; maybe two weeks. It's early. The hole is clearly caved in; the entire area is slumped downwards.
STEVE:「Well that answers that.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I feel stupid now that I was scared to come back.」

narrator:INT. DINER - MORNING
 Steve is filming Andrew and Matt across the table.
STEVE:「O.S.) I'm live on scene here with Matt and Andrew, boys, can you tell us what's happening?」
Andrew Detmer:「Well, uh, it would appear that a Virgin Mary has appeared in the maple syrup on a young local man's pancake.」
MATT:「In a second it will, wait...」
narrator:Matt focuses, and we see his syrup form a Virgin Mary.
STEVE:「O.S.) That is, that is some very uh, definitely supernatural shit, going on there.」
narrator:CUT.
MATT:「Well, when I was really little, I wanted to be police officer.」
STEVE:「O.S.) Oh, no shit?」
Andrew Detmer:「Fuck you, pig.」
MATT:「No, I just really got into on the idea of altruism, you know?」
Andrew Detmer:「What's that mean? 45.」

MATT:「Like making things better for everyone.」
Andrew Detmer:「So what, you wanna do like, a charity? That's lame.」
STEVE:「O.S.) Why is that lame?」
Andrew Detmer:「I dunno.」
MATT:「I mean, I'm not gonna- it doesn't matter, you know. I'm never gonna get out of this piece of shit town. You know, we're all just little pieces. One person can't really make a difference. I used to think- I don't know. I don't know.」
narrator:Matt telekinetically lifts a spoon and rockets it at the camera; it plinks off.
STEVE:「AAH!
 DOUCHEBAG!」
narrator:CUT.
 Now Matt has the camera, filming Steve.
MATT:「O.S.) So what's it feel like to be good at everything? STEVE I'm not good at everything-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Name something you're bad at.」

narrator:EXT. ROAD - LATER
 The guys are walking along. Andrew's holding the camera loosely, not really caring, they're chatting, it's chill. Matt gets a text.
MATT:「Shit man, I got my mom's birthday, I gotta go.」
Andrew Detmer:「Say hi for me.」
STEVE:「Later dude.」
narrator:Matt turns and casually rockets off into the sky.
STEVE:「What're you doing, where are you going now? ANDREW Well I don't wanna go home yet. You wanna go into the city?
 Ah, dude, it's rush hour.」
Andrew Detmer:「So?」

narrator:EXT. PORTLAND - THE ROOF OF THE KOIN CENTER - SUNSET
 They're 46 stories up, chillin' with milkshakes.
 It's fucking awesome. The city is beautiful.
STEVE:「I wish I could bring Samantha up here. She'd love this.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You still haven't told her?」
STEVE:「Nah, no way. She'd freak out.」
narrator:CUT.
STEVE:「Mom's like, never home anymore. I mean, you saw how my dad is, he's just quiet. Sits around. I don't know. And talking to him about it is just pointless. He's got nothing to say.」
narrator:CUT.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) And it's bad, because her pain gets real bad, you know, and we can't afford the good meds anymore. When I was little it wasn't as bad, but even then dad was still, you know, the way he is. I don't know. I don't know anymore. I don't know how to feel. CUT.」
STEVE:「It'll be fine, dude.
 You'll figure it out.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I hope so.」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, I- I mean, no, that's not- I'm really shy, and I don't have any talents, or-」
STEVE:「Yes you do, you have a talent, you have a talent.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (getting it) ...Oh, no way. No way-」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - SANDRA DETMER'S ROOM
 Sandra's in bed, sicker than ever.
SANDRA DETMER:「You look handsome.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Yeah, Steve chose my clothes, he's gonna do my hair.」
SANDRA DETMER:「I'm glad you are spending so much time with your friends.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oh yeah, me too.」
narrator:CUT.
 Andrew's camera is down at his side. MR. DETMER (O.S.) -getting to school?
Andrew Detmer:「I don't know what you mean-」
narrator:MR. DETMER (O.S.) Don't bullshit me idiot. Matt doesn't come, he don't drive up. You leave the house, and who the fuck is giving you rides to school?
Andrew Detmer:「Matt. 49.」

narrator:MR. DETMER No, wrong. Something's fucking going on with you, you can't hide it. Think you can slink around, sneaking- sneaking around the house, smiling, I know your shit. And we ain't got no more fucking money for your mother's pain medication, either.
Andrew Detmer:「I'm sorry, I'll try to-」

narrator:Andrew shrugs, and all the cards leap back up into his hands. There's a beat, and then the audience goes APESHIT.
MATT:「O.S.) Yes!
 Fuck yes!」
narrator:CUT.
 Andrew is juggling, six balls at once. Steve is drinking a soda, and offers Andrew the soda. Andrew is annoyed. Steve pantomimes joy at not having to give up his soda. Andrew stops juggling, leaving all the balls hanging in the air, and snatches away Steve's soda.
 Steve lunges after him and gets back his soda, only to have all the balls drop out of the air and hit him. The audience is LOSING THEIR FREAKING MINDS.
 CUT.
 People around Matt are buzzing about how awesome it is.
 Andrew is transporting buckets of water across the stage, spilling water everywhere. Steve is pantomiming anger at the shoddy job he's doing. Andrew pantomimes "Well, you try." Steve tries, but trips and falls, sending the contents of the bucket flying out over the audience-
 only for it to seemingly REWIND back into the bucket!
 The place GOES BERZERK.
 CUT.
 Steve and Andrew take their bows to overwhelming cheers, separately. Andrew bows again, and people freak out. We hear Matt cheering behind the camera.
 INT. MATT'S CAR - NIGHT
 Andrew's filming from shotgun.
MATT:「Just amazing dude-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You really think so-」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Yeah, it did- it did feel like that. All the girls screaming-」
MATT:「Ah, see, here's the first stage of your downfall, hubris.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What's that?」
MATT:「What?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What's "hubris?"」
MATT:「Seriously?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What "seriously," fuck you seriously!」
MATT:「laughing) I'm sorry, I'm sorry-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Hey Matt. (beat) What's "seriously" mean?」

narrator:SAMANTHA Everybody's freaking out, you've gotta come in here-
 CUT.
 We see shots of the house party, which is rocking. People keep coming up to Andrew and telling him "That was awesome!" Or "You fucking rock!" Andrew sheepishly acknowledges this. Finally, a very hot girl with pink hair and a monroe piercing is talking. This is MONICA, 16. She's a little drunk.
 MONICA Just fucking amazing. Magic is so hot. Do you know, me and my mom, in Vegas, went to a magic show, but they didn't have anything like that.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Yeah, well, we spend a lot of time practicing-」
narrator:MONICA Do you not remember me, at all?
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What?」
narrator:MONICA We took American History together.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Oooh, oh yeah, your hair was different; it was blue, right? MONICA Yeah!
 O.S.) Monica, yeah-」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM - MORNING
 We can hear it raining hard outside.
 The camera is laying on its side on the floor, and turns on when Andrew fumbles with it. There's screaming from downstairs; long and low, real pain sounds.
 Andrew drops the camera and rushes out the door.
 The camera lays on the floor. Time passes.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (faintly) Mom, it's going to be okay, okay? Just try to get through, it's going to be okay.」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - LIVING ROOM
 In the squalid living room of the Detmer residence. The camera is being held off at an angle by Mr. Detmer, as Andrew tries to get it back. It moves around a bit, so Andrew and his father are both on/off screen.
 MR. DETMER -think you can fucking use me, you're abusive, you're a fucking user little piece of shit. I went through your camera.
Andrew Detmer:「What'd you...You- what'd you see?」

Andrew Detmer:「I didn't spend any of your money, RICHARD-」
narrator:MR. DETMER Cause I don't have any fucking money to spend, it all goes to school for you, for medication for your mother-
Andrew Detmer:「School doesn't cost any money, I go to public school you idiot-」
narrator:MR. DETMER -now we can't afford your mother's pain meds anymore, up there screaming- did you just- what THE FUCK DID YOU JUST CALL ME? CALL ME A FUCKING IDIOT? Mr. Detmer hurls the camera directly into Andrew's face.
 It knocks him down and clatters to the floor.
Andrew Detmer:「clutching his face) You asshole, you fucking crazy asshole-」

narrator:EXT. THE THUNDERSTORM
 Andrew's just below the clouds, massive dark and ominous above him. It's clearly not safe, rain and wind whipping his body, lightning crackling inside the clouds. We can hear him breathing hard.
 He touches the bottom of a cloud, and gets a powerful electric shock, forcing him to back off a tiny bit.
STEVE:「O.S.) HEY!
 HEY ASSHOLE!」
narrator:The camera turns, showing Steve, in a rainslicker, flying up to meet Andrew.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Where's Matt?」
STEVE:「We have to get down from here right now, Andrew! This isn't safe!」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Where's Matt?」
STEVE:「Hung over, dude! You should be too! Let's just-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No!」
STEVE:「What the fuck are you doing? ANDREW (O.S.) I'm filming the storm, no one's ever filmed a storm like this up close bef-
 No, we're getting the fuck down, now. This is fucking crazy, Andrew- what- what happened to your face?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) ...My dad-」

STEVE:「Your dad fucking beat the shit out you! Come on, we'll go to the cops, let's get out of here. He can't do that Andrew. (MORE) 58. STEVE This is not the way you handle it, we'll go together, let's go, he can't do that-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You don't give a shit, stop acting like you care!」
STEVE:「I don't fucking care!?
 You're my best friend, idiot!」
Andrew Detmer:「What?」
STEVE:「I hang out with you and Matt practically every fucking day! You think I talk to anyone else about my parents, or my feelings on shit, are you that fucking insecure?」
Andrew Detmer:「long beat) I'm an idiot. I'm sorry Steve, oh god, I'm sorry-」
STEVE:「Dude, it's okay.
 You just need help, okay?」
Andrew Detmer:「Yeah, yes, I don't know what I'm doing-」

narrator:A large picture of Steve is on a stand as the priest reads a eulogy. Andrew's camera movements are rigid again, tight and confined, back to how they were when we first started.
 We see Steve's mother and father. His mother is sobbing. His father simply looks shellshocked, staring at the casket. Steve's mother leans on his father, and he pushes her away. There's Samantha, crying uncontrollably. The camera passes Matt...
 Who's staring directly at us.
 CUT.
 Andrew walks along in the cemetary, filming tombstones.
MATT:「O.S.) What are you doing? Filming graves, I don't get it.」
narrator:The camera looks up at Matt.
 He's keeping his distance.
MATT:「You're not returning my calls, why aren't you returning my calls.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I've been busy.」
MATT:「No you haven't. Why aren't you returning my calls. Turn off the camera.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) ...No. MATT Turn off the camera.」
narrator:Silence.
MATT:「I had a missed call from you, that morning. And from Steve. I listened to your voicemail. No voicemail from Steve.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I was upset. 60.」

MATT:「long beat) How do you get struck by lightning during a storm with no recorded lightning strikes? (waits, nothing) You can look that up online, you know, they keep track of it. I looked it up. Zero. And they find him out in a field, why would Steve go out in the middle of a field during a lightning storm?」
narrator:The camera shifts a little.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't know-」
MATT:「What?」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't know-」
MATT:「No, no, you do know, you do know, I think you do know.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't.」
MATT:「What happened, Andrew. Just stop, stop lying to me, and tell me-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I'm not lying, I don't know what happened-」
MATT:「I don't believe you, okay! I don't believe you, I want you to- put the fucking camera down.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, why-」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM
 The camera is on Andrew's dresser, near his mirror.
 Andrew suddenly appears, holding a kitchen knife.
Andrew Detmer:「addressing the camera) -wanted to show you what I was talking about.」
narrator:Andrew takes the camera, and angles it down at his arm. He takes the kitchen knife, and presses the tip into the flesh of his wrist. He drags the blade down hard, all the way to his elbow...but no cut appears. He then violently jabs himself several times...but no penetration.
Andrew Detmer:「See, it's- I put a little sheet between myself and the knife, and the barrier, the sheet, is too strong. The knife can't cut it. I mean like, what I'm saying is if I concentrate, I can't be hurt. I can't be injured. Because of the little sheet.」

narrator:INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - HALLWAY
 Andrew is putting his stuff away in his locker. He's suddenly shoved into the locker roughly. The camera turns, revealing Wayne walking away.
 The camera scans the mostly empty hallway quickly, then goes back to Wayne, now almost twenty feet away.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Hey Wayne!」

narrator:INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - BATHROOM STALL
 Andrew has laid out three small bloody objects on the back of the toilet, and presents each one to the camera one by one.
 They're Wayne's bloody teeth.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) See, this one, I got clean, cause I did a little lasso around the root, but these two, they're broken cause I think I pulled them from the middle. Matt was always better at the little, the intricate stuff, he got good at that. See how broken it is, ugh, sloppy.」
narrator:INT. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HIGH - GUIDANCE COUNSELOR'S OFFICE
 Mike FERNANDEZ, 30s, serious but warm, sits across the desk from Andrew. The concern in his voice is very real.
 FERNANDEZ Could you put the camera away?
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) No, I'm filming this. I film everything. 63.」

narrator:FERNANDEZ I understand that things have been very hard for you recently, Andrew, but the camera kind of- it alienates a little, you know?
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) What did you want to talk about?」
narrator:FERNANDEZ (beat) There's concern for your grades, Andrew. And as far as I know you've yet to apply to any colleges, so-
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) It's not doable. Financially, they're not- I mean, my dad didn't go to college either.」
narrator:FERNANDEZ Well, yes, but I still think it's worth thinking about. There are three different community colleges locally that offer great programs for-
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I don't need college, Mr. Fernandez.」

Andrew Detmer:「I've been doing a lot of reading, like you know, online, about evolution, and the way it works, and you know, natural selection. The uh... (cut) The strongest animals will always survive, and they're the ones that you know, will prosper, or grow, and survive, by feeding on the smaller animals. And as humans we- see, there's...uh- (cut) There's this thing called an Apex Predator, and basically what that is the most powerful predator in an ecosystem. And humans, you know, we're the apex predator, because there's nothing that preys on us, cause of weapons and stuff. But if something could, I bet it would. I... (cut) I mean, what I'm trying to say is, a lion doesn't feel guilty when it kills a gazelle. You don't feel guilty when you squash a fly, you know- I think that means something. I think it really means something.」

narrator:INT. DETMER RESIDENCE - ANDREW'S ROOM - NIGHT
 Screaming from Sandra's bedroom. The heater rattling. The TV from downstairs. There's a knock on the window. The camera is picked up, to reveal Matt floating outside, looking around nervously.
 After a moment, Andrew opens the window.
 CUT.
 Matt stands fidgeting, clearly uncomfortable, as Andrew films him.
MATT:「You haven't been returning my calls, so I thought I'd just...you know, ambush.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) That's rude.」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) Why?
 Your life's great-」
MATT:「Dude, don't be like that, okay-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You don't need to worry about me. I'm stronger than ever now. I can lift a whole car by myself. I could fucking crush this entire house, I'm fine.」
MATT:「That doesn't- that actually sounds like the opposite of fine. Andrew, come on, let's get out of here, your room's a mess, it smells like a Denny's bathroom in here.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) So what?」
MATT:「You're my cousin. You're my friend- it's my responsibility to take care of you.」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I think you should go. I have to pick up my mom's medication.」
MATT:「Are you going to break the rules? (beat) We're too strong now, Andrew. We're too strong for that. If you did that, you know I'd have to-」
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) You'd have to what. You were always the weakest. You couldn't do shit to me.」
MATT:「Andrew-」

Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I'm not gonna break your stupid fucking rules, just fuck off and stay out of my life. 72.」

narrator:INT. PHARMACY
 The camera approaches the counter.
 PHARMACIST Hello, how can I help you.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I'm here to pick up a prescription for Sandra Detmer.」
narrator:PHARMACIST Um, yes, hold on. That's Imuran, Baclofen, Glatiramer and Vicodin.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) That's right.」
narrator:PHARMACIST Okay, and the copay on that is...Seven hundred and fifteen dollars, eighty three cents.
 Silence.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) I have to come back. PHARMACIST Okay, we'll hold it for you.」

HOWARD:「Oh you got a gat? I got a gat too bitch-」
narrator:Howard starts to pull a gun from the back of his pants.
Andrew Detmer:「O.S.) (firing the finger gun) Bang.」

CASEY:「How- how is that possible, that's not possible-」
narrator:There's an explosion from nearby and shattered glass rains down onto the car. Matt slams on the brakes, looking up through the windshield, searching the sky.
MATT:「Where are you, man?」
narrator:There's a beat, and then a police officer abruptly appears on the passenger's side, next to Casey.
 POLICE OFFICER Listen, you can't be here, I need you to turn this car around right now and-
 The police officer is yanked upwards, disappearing from sight for a moment before coming crashing down thirty feet away. Casey screams.
CASEY:「What's...What is...What's...Matt please, please-」
narrator:The car SUDDENLY ROCKETS INTO THE AIR, straight up, flipping end over end, past the tops of the buildings, and then comes to a stop, hanging at about two hundred feet. Casey's breathing is painfully short and sharp. Matt stares out into the night sky.
 He flicks on the brights. There's Andrew, in his hospital gown, floating a dozen feet out, his flesh charred and twisted, his body clearly wracked with agonizing pain. A news helicopter circles past out of sight, and for a moment, Andrew is framed in the chopper's spotlight.
 His eyes flash to the car.
Andrew Detmer:「screaming) WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE!? The windshield is TORN OUT, and seconds later MATT IS RIPPED OUT OF THE CAR AS THOUGH YANKED BY A GIANT HOOK, taking his seatbelt with him. CASEY No NO NO 83.」

narrator:He's bleeding badly from the nose and ears.
Andrew Detmer:「agonized, crying) No one's gonna help me...No one's gonna help me now...」
narrator:We get some shots from other people's cameras, video phones, etc on the roof. Some people scream and try to run past Andrew, and he blasts them off the roof like bowling pins, which leads to more screaming.
 Andrew stands shakily, looking directly at Michael Ernesto.
 MICHAEL ERNESTO (O.S.) Please man, please, I don't know you man-
Andrew Detmer:「mumbled) What type of camera is that?」
