narrator:
COMINIUS:「Be it known, As to us, to all the world, that Caius」
MARTIUS:「Wears this war's garland And from this time, For what he did before Corioles, call him, With all the applause and clamor of the host, "Caius Martius Coriolanus!"」
narrator:TO MARTIUS) Bear the addition nobly ever! The soldiers salute in a grim sort of chant:
 SOLDIERS Caius Martius Coriolanus! Coriolanus has reached the podium. An awkward beat. Cominius gestures for him to speak into the microphones. He tersely does so:
Coriolanus:「No more of this; it does offend my heart. Pray now, no more. An awkward silence. Cominius elegantly tries to covers the」

narrator:
VOLUMNIA:「But, 0, thy wife... Coriolanus greets Virgilia with the clumsy and stiff formality that marks their marriage.」
Coriolanus:「My gracious silence, hail. An awkwardly tender kiss. He notes her tears. Reacts coldly.
 Would thou have laughed had I come coffined home, That weeps to see me triumph? Ay, my dear, Such eyes the widows in Corioles wear, And mothers that lack sons.」
MENENIUS:「Now, the gods crown thee!」
Coriolanus:「greets him warmly) And live you yet?」

narrator:He is leaning against a sink, stripped naked. His muscular if shattered body exposed. Volumnia sits and dresses her son's wounds. As she always has done. As she always will. It is a disturbing, intimate image.
Coriolanus:「The good Senators must be visited; From whom I have received not only greetings, But with them change of honors. He shifts painfully as she continues to treat one of his wounds.」
VOLUMNIA:「I have lived To see inherited my very wishes And the buildings of my fancy. Only There's one thing wanting, which I doubt」
narrator:NOT BUT Our Rome will cast upon thee. He catches her eye in the mirror, very firm:
Coriolanus:「Know, good mother, I had rather be their servant in my way, Than sway with them in theirs. They stop when-- Virgilia enters. She stops in the doorway. It is embarrassing for her, as if she has interrupted two lovers. A long moment. She looks to her husband. To Volumnia. They stare back. There is no way she can compete with their intimacy. Surrendering, she silently goes.」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「Your honors' pardon. I had rather have my wounds to heal again Than hear say how I got them.」
MENENIUS:「Pray now, sit down.」
Coriolanus:「I had rather have one scratch my head in」

narrator:Coriolanus waits. His face strangely vacant. He flexes his wounded arm. It hurts. He hears Cominius finish. A good round of applause. He hears his name being cheered: "Coriolanus!" Coriolanus closes his eyes, steels himself, and then re- enters the chamber...
 INT. SENATE CHAMBER - DAY
 Menenius greets him and escorts him to the podium for his "acceptance speech."
MENENIUS:「The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased To make thee Consul! Menenius steps back. A beat. Coriolanus stares at the Senators. At the TV cameras. He leans awkwardly into the podium microphone:」
Coriolanus:「I do owe them still My life and services. A beat. For an acceptance speech, rather terse. Menenius jumps in to salvage the moment:」
MENENIUS:「It then remains That you do speak to the people.」
Coriolanus:「I do beseech you, Let me overleap that custom, for I cannot」

narrator:The Senators, led by Brutus, clamor their agreement. Tradition must be obeyed.
MENENIUS:「calming, to Coriolanus) Pray you, go fit you to the custom.」
Coriolanus:「It is a part That I shall blush in acting, and might」
narrator:WELL Be taken from the people. Menenius quickly turns off Coriolanus' microphone.
 BRUTUS
 TO SICINIUS) Mark you that?
Coriolanus:「To brag unto them "Thus I did, and thus!" Show them the unaching scars which I should hide, As if I had received them for the hire Of their breath only! Menenius sees Coriolanus is getting angry, this could be disastrous. He elegantly gestures for Cominius to escort Coriolanus out immediately -- as he addresses the Senators and TV cameras:」

narrator:INT. MENENIUS' LIMO - DAY
 The limousine winds through the pedestrian traffic toward the Roman marketplace. Coriolanus sits with Menenius. Coriolanus is both angry and embarrassed. He is wearing a sharp business suit.
MENENIUS:「Have you not known The worthiest men have done it?」
narrator:CORIOLANUS
 AGREES) Custom calls me to it. What custom wills, in all things should we do... What must I say? "Look, sir, my wounds. I got them in my country's service."
MENENIUS:「O me, the gods! You must not speak like that. You must」
narrator:DESIRE THEM To think upon you--
Coriolanus:「Think upon me"? Hang 'em! I would they would forget me.」

narrator:EXT. MARKETPLACE - DAY
 The commercial heart of Rome. A large town square, since antiquity used as a marketplace. But now it is filled with tatty stalls selling cheap purses and knock-off watches. Paltry fruit stands alongside shabby souvenir stalls. Advertising billboards surround and pollute the square -- SONY. COKE. NIKE. MCDONALDS -- obscuring any classical architecture that might have survived. Tamora and Cassius, the political activists, are in the crowd. They watch closely. Coriolanus slowly walks to the center of the marketplace. He stands, feeling ridiculous and not at all humble. He looks around. Waiting for something to happen. The CUSTOMERS and SHOPKEEPERS just look back at him. Some are curious. Some are amused. Some hostile and most indifferent. But no one approaches. Then Coriolanus understands. He must g to them: beg for votes. He prepares himself and then slowly moves through the various stalls, weaving in and out. Trying to maintain his dignity. He sees the Citizens from before and goes to them. We glimpse Brutus and Sicinius amongst the crowd.
 CORIOLANUS
 TO CASSIUS) You know the cause, sir, of my standing here.
CASSIUS:「We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you to it.」
Coriolanus:「Mine own desert.」

TAMORA:「Your own desert?」
Coriolanus:「Ay, but not mine own desire.」

narrator:
TAMORA:「How not your own desire?」
Coriolanus:「No, it was never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.」
CASSIUS:「You must think, if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you.」
Coriolanus:「Well then, I pray, your price of the Consulship?」
narrator:WAR VET The price is to ask it kindly.
Coriolanus:「Kindly, sir, I pray, let me have it. I have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private Your good voice, sir. What say you?」
narrator:WAR VET
 IMPRESSED) You shall have it, worthy sir.
Coriolanus:「A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begged. I have your alms. Adieu. Business done, so he thinks, Coriolanus crisply moves on. Cassius is not convinced.」
CASSIUS:「But this is something odd. Coriolanus continues on. He sees a large JAMAICAN WOMAN with her CHILDREN, carrying plastic grocery bags, talking to a SHOPKEEPER. He goes to them:」
Coriolanus:「Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that I may be Consul.」

JAMAICAN WOMAN:「You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.」
Coriolanus:「Your enigma?」

narrator:
JAMAICAN WOMAN:「You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends You have not indeed loved the common people.」
Coriolanus:「You should account me the more virtuous that I have not been common in my love Therefore, beseech you, I may be Consul.」
narrator:SHOPKEEPER We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give you our voices heartily.
JAMAICAN WOMAN:「You have received many wounds for your country.」
Coriolanus:「I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no farther.」
JAMAICAN WOMAN:「The gods give you joy, sir, heartily! Coriolanus is warming to the task, it's easier than he thought. He moves to a central, open area and declares」
narrator:PUBLICLY:
Coriolanus:「Your voices! For your voices I have」
narrator:FOUGHT; Watched for your voices; for your voices
 BEAR Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice
 SIX I have seen and heard of! A crowd is gathering. We note Brutus and Sicinius in the crowd. Menenius, too, has moved in.

Coriolanus:「For your voices Have done many things, some less, some more. Your voices! Indeed, I would be Consul.」

narrator:RACE TRACK TOUT Therefore let him be Consul!
JAMAICAN WOMAN:「The gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people! The Citizens applaud and give their support:」
narrator:CITIZENS Amen, amen. God save thee, noble Consul!
Coriolanus:「Worthy voices! Menenius, with Brutus and Sicinius, goes to him:」
MENENIUS:「You have stood your limitation, and the」
narrator:TRIBUNES Endue you with the people's voice.
Coriolanus:「Is this done?」
SICINIUS:「The custom of request you have discharged. The people do admit you, and are summoned To meet anon upon your approbation.」
Coriolanus:「Where? At the Senate?」

narrator:CORIOLANUS
 TO TITUS) Tullus Aufidius then has assembled a new army?
TITUS:「He has, my lord.」
Coriolanus:「Saw you Aufidius?」
TITUS:「He is retired to Antium.」
Coriolanus:「Spoke he of me?」
TITUS:「He did, my lord.」
Coriolanus:「How? What?」
TITUS:「How often he had met you, sword to sword; That of all things upon the earth he」
narrator:HATED Your person most.
Coriolanus:「At Antium lives he?」
TITUS:「At Antium.」
Coriolanus:「I wish I had a cause to seek him there, To oppose his hatred fully. They hear the growing rumble of a crowd. Curious. They continue on and turn a corner to...」

narrator:CORIOLANUS
 TO TITUS) Behold, these are the Tribunes of the people, The tongues of the common mouth.
SICINIUS:「Pass no further.」
Coriolanus:「Ha! What is that?」
BRUTUS:「It will be dangerous to go on. No further.」
Coriolanus:「What makes this change?」
MENENIUS:「The matter?」
COMINIUS:「Hath he not passed the nobles and the commons?」
BRUTUS:「Cominius, no. Coriolanus steps closer to Brutus. The mob sees him through the glass doors. The tension immediately increases.」
Coriolanus:「Have I had children's voices?」
TITUS:「Tribunes, give way.」
BRUTUS:「The people are incensed against him.」
Coriolanus:「glancing to the growing」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「But this was known before.」
SICINIUS:「You show too much of that For which the people stir. If you will」
narrator:PASS To where you are bound, you must inquire your way. The crowd outside is growing restless, sensing and responding to the building tension. The police try to hold them back, keeping them away from the doors. The crowd presses in. We see Cassius and Tamora at the forefront, urging the crowd on.
MENENIUS:「Let's be calm--」
COMINIUS:「The people are abused, set on--」
MENENIUS:「Not now, not now--」
TITUS:「Not in this heat, sir-- Coriolanus strides angrily toward the doors and exits-- The others follow--」
narrator:EXT. SENATE-COURTYARD - DAY
 Coriolanus launches himself into the crowd with blistering
 ANGER:
Coriolanus:「My nobler friends, I crave their pardons. For the mutable, rank-scented crowd, Let them regard me as I do not flatter, And therein behold themselves. I say again, In soothing them, we nourish against our」

narrator:
MENENIUS:「Well, no more!」
TITUS:「No more words, we beseech you-- The mob has surrounded them all by now. The police are getting nervous, eyes darting uneasily from the unruly crowd to the volatile men. This all has the potential of sparking to violence. We note a TV news crew moving into position, covering the action. Others film with cell phone cameras. We intercut some of this footage.」
BRUTUS:「to Coriolanus, provoking) You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity.」
SICINIUS:「It were well we let the people know it.」
Coriolanus:「Were I as patient as the midnight sleep, By Jove, it would be my mind!」
SICINIUS:「It is a mind That shall remain a poison where it is, Not poison any further.」
narrator:CORIOLANUS
 EXPLODES) "Shall remain"! Hear you this Triton of the minnows? Mark
 YOU His absolute "shall"?
BRUTUS:「Why, should the people give One that speaks thus their voice?」

Coriolanus:「I'll give my reasons, More worthier than their voices! Menenius tries to pull him away, Coriolanus shakes free and continues the attack:」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「By Jove himself, It makes the consuls base; and my soul」
narrator:ACHES To know, when two authorities are up, Neither supreme, how soon confusion, May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take The one by the other. The crowd roars angrily -- Coriolanus spins on them:
Coriolanus:「Thus we debase the nature of our seats, and make the rabble Call our cares fears; which will in time Break ope the locks of the Senate, and」
narrator:BRING IN The crows to peck the eagles!
MENENIUS:「Come, enough!」
BRUTUS:「Enough, with over-measure.」
SICINIUS:「calls to the mob) He has spoken like a traitor, and shall」
narrator:ANSWER As traitors do! At the word "traitor" Coriolanus loses all reason, he is
 FIRE:
Coriolanus:「Thou wretch, despite overwhelm thee!」
BRUTUS:「Manifest treason!」
SICINIUS:「This is a Consul? No!」
Coriolanus:「Hence, old goat! Coriolanus grabs Sicinius roughly and flings him aside-- At this -- the crowd ROARS in outrage -- the TV crews hustle」

narrator:
MENENIUS:「On both sides more respect!」
SICINIUS:「calling to the crowd) Here's he that would take from you all your power! The crowd reacts angrily -- surging forward against the restraint of the police. We see grim RIOT POLICE marching into position. The crowd is not intimidated, they are spoiling for a fight. The Tribunes provoke the crowd even more, escalating and building the fever:」
BRUTUS:「You are at point to lose your liberties! Martius would have all from you, Martius, Whom late you have named for Consul.」
SICINIUS:「What is the city but the people?!」
TAMORA:「True! The people are the city!」
SICINIUS:「We do here pronounce, upon the part of the people, Martius is worthy of present DEATH! A huge roar from the mob. Panic and violence building. Fast」
narrator:AND OVERLAPPING:
BRUTUS:「Guards, seize him!」
Coriolanus:「No, I'll die here!」

narrator:ANOTHER SENATOR The other course Will prove too bloody, and the end of it Unknown to the beginning. Sicinius is about to retort when Brutus stops him. Brutus assents, assuming the voice of reason:
BRUTUS:「Be you then as the people's officer. Menenius and Coriolanus' supporters are relieved.
 If you bring not Martius, we'll proceed In our first way.」
MENENIUS:「I'll bring him to you. He goes quickly. Brutus turns to Sicinius and Tamora and begins to quietly explain his plan.」
narrator:INT. MARTIUS VILLA-CORRIDOR - DAY
 Coriolanus strides angrily down a long corridor, in and out of shafts of light, seething to Titus:
Coriolanus:「Let them pull all about mine ears,」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「to Volumnia, angrily) I talk of you! Why did you wish me milder? Would you」
narrator:HAVE ME False to my nature? Rather say I play The man I am! She is equally tough with him, not giving an inch, snapping
 RIGHT BACK:
VOLUMNIA:「sir, sir, sir, I would have had you put your power well on, Before you had worn it out.」
Coriolanus:「Let go!」
VOLUMNIA:「You might have been enough the man you are, With striving less to be so!」
Coriolanus:「Let them hang!」
VOLUMNIA:「Av, and burn too! Her outraged fury matches his. Overpowers his.」
narrator:MENENIUS
 TO CORIOLANUS) Come, come, you have been too rough, something too rough. You must return and mend it. Coriolanus turns away.
VOLUMNIA:「Pray, be counseled. I have a heart as little apt as yours, But yet a brain that leads my use of」
narrator:ANGER To better vantage.
MENENIUS:「Well said, noble woman!」
Coriolanus:「What must I do?」

narrator:
MENENIUS:「Return to the Tribunes.」
Coriolanus:「Well, what then? What then?」
MENENIUS:「Repent what you have spoke.」
Coriolanus:「For them? I cannot do it to the gods. Must I then do it to them?」
VOLUMNIA:「You are too absolute, Though therein you can never be too noble.」
Coriolanus:「upset, walking away) Why force you this? She pursues him:」

narrator:CORIOLANUS
 BITTERLY) Away, my disposition, and possess me Some harlot's spirit. A beggar's tongue Make motion through my lips, and my armed knees, Who bowed but in my stirrup, bend like
 HIS That hath charity received! The thought of begging is too much, he rejects it, breaking
 AWAY:
Coriolanus:「I will not do it! Lest I cease to honor mine own truth And by my body's action teach my mind A most inherent baseness. Volumnia snarls at him, exasperated, building to a thunder that dwarfs his:」
VOLUMNIA:「At thy choice, then! To beg of thee, it is my more dishonor Than thou of them. Come all to ruin! Let Thy mother rather feel thy pride than」
narrator:FEAR Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at
 DEATH With as biq heart as thou! Do as you like! The words echo. It is as if he has been slapped. His resolve vanishes.

Coriolanus:「Pray, be content... Mother, I am going, chide me no more. He awaits her approval. She will not yet grant it.
 Look, I am going... Commend me to my wife. I'll return Consul, Or never trust to what my tongue can do In the way of flattery further. She graciously bows to him.」

narrator:Cassius and Tamora hurry off to instruct and manipulate the crowd as best they can. They mix with the audience in the stands.
 MEANWHILE-- A gloomy but resolved Coriolanus walks with Cominius and Menenius between the tiers of audience, on the way to the set.
 COMINIUS
 ARM YOURSELF To answer mildly, for they are prepared With accusations, as I hear, more strong Than are upon you yet.
Coriolanus:「The word is "mildly." Pray you, let us go. Let them accuse me by invention, I Will answer in mine honor.」
MENENIUS:「Ay, but mildly.」
Coriolanus:「Well, mildly be it then. Mildly! Coriolanus steels himself as they emerge from between the stands and head toward the set. TV news crews are waiting. Blinding lights snap on. The crowd, on seeing Coriolanus, lets out a ROAR. Deafening and savage. We see Cassius and Tamora moving through the crowd, instigating, convincing, imploring. Coriolanus ignores it all. Imperious to the end. Brutus and Sicinius wait on the set.」

narrator:
MENENIUS:「Calmly, I do beseech you. Coriolanus steps to the microphone. Brutus gestures for the crowd to quiet down. We see bits of this scene through the monitors on the TV cameras. When the crowd is silent, Coriolanus begins to make a」
narrator:REHEARSED SPEECH:
Coriolanus:「The honored gods-- But his voice echoes badly with reverb. Menenius adjusts the microphone. Coriolanus begins again, quickly and by rote:
 The honored gods Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of」
narrator:JUSTICE Supplied with worthy men. Plant love among us. Throng our large temples with the shows of peace, And not our streets with war.
COMINIUS:「Amen, amen.」
MENENIUS:「A noble wish. His boilerplate speech over, Coriolanus turns to Sicinius who is at the other standing microphone:」
Coriolanus:「Shall I be charged no further than this present? Must all determine here?」
SICINIUS:「I do demand, If you submit you to the people's voices.」
Coriolanus:「I am content.」

narrator:INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY
 Volumnia watches the proceedings closely on TV. She is pleased with her son's performance so far.
 INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY
 Menenius, ever the People's Friend, steps to the microphone:
MENENIUS:「Lo, citizens, he says he is content. The warlike service he has done,」
narrator:CONSIDER; THINK Upon the wounds his body bears, which
 SHOW Like graves in the holy churchyard.
Coriolanus:「uncomfortable with this) Scratches with briers, Scars to move laughter only.」

MENENIUS:「Consider further, That when he speaks not like a citizen, You find him like a soldier. Do not take His rougher accents for malicious sounds, But, as I say, such as become a soldier. Coriolanus cuts in, his impatience getting the better of him:」
Coriolanus:「What is the matter That being passed for Consul with full voice, I am so dishonored that the very hour You take it off again?」

narrator:
SICINIUS:「(the coup de grace) For which you are a traitor to the people. Coriolanus responds, a cobra striking:」
Coriolanus:「How? Traitor?!」
narrator:MENENIUS
 ALARMED) Nay, temperately! Your promise.
Coriolanus:「The fires in the lowest hell fold in the people! Call me their traitor, thou injurious Tribune!」
narrator:SICINIUS
 CALLING) Mark you this, people?! The crowd responds, egged on by Cassius and Tamora. A murmur of voices, a chant growing, "Traitor traitor traitor..." Brutus cleverly plays the reasonable voice, knowing his words will further rile Coriolanus:
BRUTUS:「But since he hath Served well for Rome--」
narrator:CORIOLANUS
 SNAPS) What do you prate of service?
BRUTUS:「I talk of that, that know it.」
Coriolanus:「You?! I'll know no further. Let them pronounce death, exile, Flaying, pent to linger But with a grain a day - I would not buy Their mercy at the price of one fair word!」

narrator:
BRUTUS:「There's no more to be said, but he is」
narrator:BANISHED As enemy to the people and his country.
 IT SHALL BE SO!
 CROWD It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall be so...!
 AND THEN--
 CORIOLANUS EXPLODES-- His rage is volcanic-- He SLAMS the standing microphone away-- His dragon's ROAR silences the entire studio--
 CORIOLANUS
 YOU COMMON CRY OF CURS! A collective intake of breath-- The crowd is stunned--
Coriolanus:「Whose breath I hate As reek of the rotten fens, whose loves I」
narrator:PRIZE As the dead carcasses of unburied men That do corrupt my air... (each word an attack)
 I BANISH YOU! The crowd is silent. No one dares to even breathe. AT THE VILLA: Volumnia watches, frozen, breathless. IN THE APARTMENT: Aufidius stands, riveted.
 BACK IN THE STUDIO:
Coriolanus:「Here remain with your uncertainty. Let every feeble rumor shake your hearts! Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes, Fan you into despair! Have the power」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「CANT'D) Making but reservation of yourselves; Still your own foes - deliver you As most abated captives to some nation That won you without blows! A beat. The TV cameras hum. The crowd is silent. Menenius and the others watch in amazement. Coriolanus slowly takes one last, long look at the people of Rome.」
narrator:THEN:
Coriolanus:「Despising, For you, the city, thus I turn my back. He turns and slowly walks toward one of the tunnels leading from the studio. The crowd follows every step with their eyes. He stops. Turns back. Steel.
 There is a world elsewhere. And he goes down the tunnel. Disappearing from view. A silent beat. Then, a chilling cry of absolutely Jacobin bloodlust from the」

narrator:EXT. WASTELAND CHECKPOINT - DAWN
 The outskirts of Rome are an urban wasteland. Abandoned factories. Rusting cars. Overgrown vacant lots. Collapsing advertising billboards. There is a lonely gas station in the distance, its neon sign glowing a lurid green in the gray dawn light. We are at a Roman checkpoint on the highway into the city. A guardhouse and barrier. Some barbed wire barricades. Bored soldiers. Several cars pull up to the checkpoint. Two Roman security SUVs. Menenius' familiar limousine. And Volumnia's enormous Bentley. Security Guards climb out of their vehicle, light cigarettes and chat with the soldiers manning the checkpoint. Menenius, Titus and Cominius climb from Menenius' limousine.
 INT. VOLUMNIA'S BENTLEY - DAWN
 Meanwhile, inside the Bentley, Coriolanus is comforting his wife and mother:
 CORIOLANUS
 TO VIRGILIA) Come, leave your tears. A brief farewell.
 THE BEAST With many heads butts me away.
 VIRGILIA
 HEAVENS 0 HEAVENS Volumnia has tears in her eyes as well. Coriolanus is surprisingly unsentimental and tough with her:
Coriolanus:「Nay, mother, Where is your ancient courage?」

VOLUMNIA:「Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome, And occupations perish!」
Coriolanus:「Nay, mother, I shall be loved when I am lacked. She nods to him, she has regained her composure.」

narrator:Only then do they climb from the car.
 EXT. WASTELAND CHECKPOINT - DAWN
 Coriolanus takes his leave:
 CORIOLANUS
 EMBRACING TITUS) Bid me farewell.
TITUS:「Farewell, Martius.」
narrator:CORIOLANUS
 EMBRACING COMINIUS) Cominius, droop not, adieu. I'll do well yet. He goes to Menenius, who is genuinely distraught. For all his political machinations, he truly cares for Coriolanus. Coriolanus is moved to see Menenius so emotional.
Coriolanus:「Thou old and true Menenius, Thy tears are salter than a younger man's, And venomous to thine eyes.」
narrator:MENENIUS
 DEEPLY) If I could shake off but seven years I'd go with thee every foot. They embrace. Then Coriolanus knows it is time to go. He picks up a traveling bag and slings it over his shoulder. Looks back at his friends and family. A beat. A certain darkness creeps into his expression. An ominous resolve.
Coriolanus:「You shall hear from me still. He turns and looks to the distance. Miles and miles of wasteland and desolation.」

narrator:His future.
Coriolanus:「I go alone, Like to a lonely dragon. He strides off. The soldiers manning the checkpoint raise the barrier. Coriolanus walks under it. And begins walking down the long highway away from Rome. The only sound is the cold, lonely moan of the wind. We fade to...」

narrator:Aufidius is growing uneasy. His men are tense, ready to open fire at any second.
AUFIDIUS:「Speak, man! What's thy name?」
Coriolanus:「A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears, And harsh in sound to thine. The other Guard from outside, and several other soldiers, rush in. Weapons drawn, surrounding Coriolanus. He doesn't move a muscle. Aufidius, intrigued by the stranger's courage, waves his men off.」
AUFIDIUS:「Say, what's thy name? Thou has a grim appearance .What's thy name?」
Coriolanus:「Know'st thou me yet?」
AUFIDIUS:「I know thee not Thy name? Finally, Coriolanus removes his burnoose. His face is exposed. The Volscians are stunned.」
Coriolanus:「My name is Caius Martius, who hath done To thee particularly and to all the」
narrator:VOLSCES Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness
 MAY My surname Coriolanus. The Volscians look to Aufidius, very nervous, unsure how to proceed. Aufidius just stares back at Coriolanus, staggered.

Coriolanus:「Only that name remains. Aufidius doesn't understand. Coriolanus explains:
 The cruelty and envy of the people, Who have all forsook me, hath devoured the rest, And suffered me by the voice of slaves to」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「CANT'D) Whooped out of Rome. Now this extremity Hath brought me to thy hearth, not out of」
narrator:HOPE - Mistake me not - to save my life; for if I had feared death, of all the men in the
 WORLD I would have avoided thee, but in mere spite, To be full quit of those my banishers, Stand I before thee here. Coriolanus dares to take a step toward Aufidius-- The Volscians react. Guns are raised, fingers tight on triggers, an instant from opening fire-- Coriolanus carefully holds out his arms. He's unarmed. Aufidius nods to his men. They hold their fire. Coriolanus slowly crosses the room toward Aufidius. Step by step. Their eyes are locked. Nothing else in the world exists.
Coriolanus:「I will fight Against my cankered country with the」
narrator:SPLEEN Of all the under fiends. But if thou Dares not this, then I present My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice... Coriolanus stops right in front of Aufidius and slowly, carefully, undoes his collar. Exposing his naked throat. Bending back his head. Ready for execution.

Coriolanus:「Which not to cut would show thee but a fool, Since I have ever followed thee with hate, And cannot live but to thy shame unless It be to do thee service. A long beat. Aufidius stares at Coriolanus. The Volscians watch, eyes wide, too tense to do anything now.」

narrator:
AUFIDIUS:「come, go in, And take our friendly senators by the hands. Coriolanus shakes hands with the politicians:」
Coriolanus:「You bless me, gods. Then Aufidius takes him to a huge military map laid out on a pool table. Rome and her territories. Strategic markers denote Roman forces and Volscian forces.」

narrator:A long beat. Menenius waits for an answer. Grows uneasy. Then...
Coriolanus:「Away.」
MENENIUS:「How? . Away?」
narrator:CORIOLANUS
 ICE) Wife mother child I know not.
 MY AFFAIRS Are servanted to others. Menenius can't believe this cold response--
 MENENIUS
 SIR--
Coriolanus:「Therefore be gone. His frigid eyes slice into Menenius:
 Another word, Menenius, I will not hear thee speak. Menenius stares at him, shaken to the core. The Guards pull Menenius away. Coriolanus doesn't even glance at him.」

narrator:Menenius is dead.
 INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - SUNSET
 The red glow of dusk is shining through the cracked and dusty windows. Coriolanus, still in the barber chair, broods silently. Aufidius sits nearby, watching him. The visit from Menenius is troubling Coriolanus.
Coriolanus:「My partner in this action, You must report to the Volscian lords how」
narrator:PLAINLY I have borne this business. Aufidius is curiously formal in his response, the estrangement he feels toward Coriolanus growing:
AUFIDIUS:「Only their ends You have respected; stopped your ears」
narrator:AGAINST The general suit of Rome; never admitted A private whisper, no, not with such
 FRIENDS That thought them sure of you.
Coriolanus:「This last old man, Whom with a cracked heart I have sent to Rome, Loved me above the measure of a father. Shouts and whistles from outside the factory draw their attention.」

narrator:She is magnificent.
 INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - SUNSET
 Coriolanus stands as Volumnia, Virgilia and Young Martius are led into the factory. He tries to register nothing, assuming a sort of glacial calm. Volumnia and the others stop -- taking in Coriolanus' savage new demeanor and appearance -- taking in the Acolytes and pagan totems. Volumnia just stands, peering sternly at her son. As if daring him not to crumble before her. He doesn't. Aufidius watches everything closely. It is Virgilia, finally, who bravely approaches:
VIRGILIA:「My lord and husband-- He stop her, almost a warning, with:」
Coriolanus:「These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.」
VIRGILIA:「The sorrow that delivers us thus changed Makes you think so.」

Coriolanus:「Best of my flesh, Forgive my tyranny, but do not say For that "Forgive our Romans." She shows great courage. Stepping forward and kissing him deeply. A long kiss.
 a kiss Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge. It is a perverse response. In his monomaniacal imagination, his wife's kiss is obsessively equated with his revenge on Rome. He finally moves to Volumnia, simply can't resist her orbital pull.」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「You gods I prate, And the most noble mother of the world Leave unsaluted. Sink, my knee, in the earth. He kneels before her. It is done with a sense of duty and protocol, not affection.」
VOLUMNIA:「stand up blest. He rises.
 Then with no softer cushion than the」
narrator:FLINT I kneel before thee. She quickly and dramatically kneels before him. It is a coup de theatre and a masterpiece of manipulation.
Coriolanus:「What is this? Your knees to me? To your corrected son?」
VOLUMNIA:「Thou art my warrior; I hope to frame thee. She indicates Young Martius:
 This is a poor epitome of yours, Which by the interpretation of full time May show like all yourself.」
Coriolanus:「to his son) The god of soldiers, Inform thy thoughts with nobleness, that thou may prove To shame invulnerable. Volumnia pulls Young Martius down:」

narrator:All three kneel before Coriolanus. A pitiable sight. But he has no pity. He turns, sits in the barber chair.
Coriolanus:「I beseech you, peace! Or, if you'd ask, remember this: Do not bid me dismiss my soldiers, or」
narrator:CAPITULATE Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not Wherein I seem unnatural. Desire not To ally my rages and revenges with Your colder reasons. Volumnia stands, assuming again a position of strength.
VOLUMNIA:「no more, no more! You have said you will not grant us anything, For we have nothing else to ask but that Which you deny already; yet we will ask, That, if you fail in our request, the」
narrator:BLAME May hang upon your hardness. Therefore hear us.
Coriolanus:「Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for」

narrator:Coriolanus' face is a study in aloof neutrality. Yet he is listening intensely and Volumnia's words are affecting. She fights back emotion. It is impossible to tell if this real or feigned.
VOLUMNIA:「For myself, son, I propose not to wait on fortune till These wars determine. If I cannot」
narrator:PERSUADE THEE Rather to show a noble grace, thou shalt
 NO SOONER March to assault thy country than to Tread on thy mother's womb That brought thee to this world.
 VIRGILIA
 STANDS) Ay, and mine, That brought you forth this boy, to keep
 YOUR NAME Living to time. Young Martius stands as well and approaches his father, challenging and warlike:
 YOUNG MARTIUS You shall not tread on me. I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight! Coriolanus stares at him -- the intensity of the boy's aggression is disturbing. And familiar.
Coriolanus:「I have sat too long. He rises and turns as if to go--」

narrator:
VOLUMNIA:「Like him by chance Yet give us our dispatch. I am hushed until our city be afire, And then I'll speak a little. She turns and begins to go. But... We see finally Coriolanus crack. Like a great building crumbling. Like fissures cutting across marble. Emotion floods into him. He lunges forward and grabs her hand. Volumnia stops. Time stands still. He doesn't speak.」
narrator:THEN:
Coriolanus:「O mother mother... What have you done? He falls to his knees, clutching her hand.
 Behold, the heavens do ope, The gods look down -- and this unnatural」
narrator:SCENE They laugh at. He buries his head in her, like a lost child:
Coriolanus:「O my mother, mother! 0! You have won a happy victory for Rome; But for your son - believe it, 0 believe it! - Most dangerously you have with him」

narrator:She is willing to pay that price. So is he. A moment between them. He accepts his destiny.
Coriolanus:「But let it come. He stands, regains his composure. He slowly walks to Aufidius. He leans close, speaking intimately:
 Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars, I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius, Were you in my stead, would you have」
narrator:HEARD A mother less? Or granted less? Aufidius?
 AUFIDIUS
 CAREFULLY) I was moved withal.
Coriolanus:「I dare be sworn you were. And, sir, it is no little thing to make Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir, What peace you'll make, advise me. We study Aufidius' face. He gives away nothing. Coriolanus turns back to Volumnia. Looks at her. She is victorious. The crimson sky looms over her ominously. And we go to...」

narrator:AUFIDIUS
 SEES SOMETHING) Say no more. In the distance they can see a Roman military truck approaching. Clouds of dust billow up. They exchange a look. This is what they have been waiting for. They stand, stretch and prepare. The truck stops across the highway from them and Coriolanus gets out. He holds a copy of the peace treaty in a leather portfolio. He is unarmed. He stops. He sees Aufidius and the thugs. Waiting for him. Like a death squad. Coriolanus looks at them. He knows exactly what's going to happen. He is ready. He nods and the truck drives off. Coriolanus slowly crosses the highway to the truck stop, like a gunslinger walking down Main Street. There is something new to Coriolanus here. A sort of acceptance. He knows his time is past. Aufidius and the thugs go to meet him. The thugs spread out a bit, strategically, getting ready to strike. Coriolanus' experienced eyes miss none of this. They meet in the parking lot.
 CORIOLANUS
 TO AUFIDIUS) I am returned your soldier, No more infected with my country's love Than when I parted hence, but still
 SUBSISTING Under your great command. He hands the treaty portfolio to Aufidius:
Coriolanus:「We have made peace With no less honor to the Volscians Than shame to the Romans.」

narrator:
AUFIDIUS:「handing the treaty to」
narrator:LIEUTENANT) Read it not, But tell the traitor, in the highest
 DEGREE He hath abused your powers. Coriolanus is ready for Aufidius' ploy. He is amused at the obvious attempt to anger him:
Coriolanus:「Traitor? How now?」
AUFIDIUS:「Ay, traitor, Martius.」
Coriolanus:「Martius"?」
AUFIDIUS:「Ay, Martius, Caius Martius! Dost thou」
narrator:THINK I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy
 STOLEN NAME "Coriolanus"? He spins to the others, making the case against Coriolanus with cutting bitterness:
 AUFIDIUS
 PERFIDIOUSLY He has betrayed your business and given up, For certain drops of salt, your city Rome- I say "your city" - to his wife and
 MOTHER; Breaking his oath and resolution, like A twist of rotten silk; never admitting Counsel of the war, but at his nurse's
 TEARS He whined and roared away YOUR VICTORY! Coriolanus tries to contain his anger:
Coriolanus:「Hear'st thou, Mars?」

narrator:
Coriolanus:「Measureless liar, thou has made my heart Too great for what contains it. "Boy"? 0 slave. Coriolanus' eyes miss nothing a Volscian thug shifting a bead of sweat on another one secretly reaching into his coat for a weapon. Some of the Volscian thugs are clearly nervous. Coriolanus is ready. He prepares himself mentally to die. He is acutely controlled:
 Cut me to pieces, Volsces. Men and lads, stain all your edges on me. It is a dare. A challenge.
 Boy"? False hound. If you have writ your annals true, 'tis」
narrator:THERE That, like an eagle in a dovecote, I Fluttered your Volscians in Corioles. His gaze burns into Aufidius:
Coriolanus:「Alone I did it "Boy."」
