narration:sound muted
 soft ambient pulse
 Sound returns .
 siren in the distance
 sound muted
 soft ambient pulse
 Sound returns .
 insects chirping
 house alarm
Will:「I shoot Mr. Marlow twice , severing jugulars and carotids with near - surgical precision . He will die watching me take what is his away from him . This is my design .」
narration:house alarm
 woman whimpering frantically
Will:「I shoot Mrs. Marlow expertly through the neck . This is not a fatal wound . The bullet misses every artery . She is paralyzed before it leaves her body . Which does n't mean she ca n't feel pain . It just means she ca n't do anything about it . This is my design .」
narration:house alarm
 Alarm stops .
 phone ringing on other end
 keypad beeps
Security:「This is DDX Security . Who am I speaking with ?」
Will:「I need the incident report for the home security company . This was recorded as a false alarm . There was a false alarm last week . He tapped their phone .」
narration:Yeah .
Officer:「It 's been tapped .」
Will:「He recorded Mrs. Marlow 's conversation with the security company .」
Security:「This is DDX Security . Who am I speaking with ?」
Mrs. Marlow 's Voice Record:「Theresa Marlow .」
Security:「Can you please confirm your password for security purposes ?」
Mrs. Marlow 's Voice Record:「Tea kettle .」
Security:「Thank you , Mrs. Marlow . We detected a front - door alarm .」
Mrs. Marlow 's Voice Record:「Yeah , sorry about that .」
Security:「Is there anyone in the house with you at this time , Mrs. Marlow ?」
Mrs. Marlow 's Voice Record:「I 'm just here with my husband .」
Security:「Do you require any further assistance ?」
Mrs. Marlow 's Voice Record:「No . Thank you so much for calling .」
Will:「And this is when it gets truly horrifying for Mrs. Marlow .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Everyone has thought about killing someone , one way or another , be it your own hand or the hand of God . Now think about killing Mrs. Marlow . Why did she deserve this ? Tell me your design . Tell me who you are .」
Jack:「Mr. Graham . Special Agent Jack Crawford . I head the Behavioral Science Unit .」
Will:「We 've met .」
Jack:「Yes . We had a disagreement when we opened up the museum .」
Will:「I disagreed with what you named it .」
Jack:「The , uh , Evil Minds Research Museum .」
Will:「It 's a little hammy , Jack .」
Jack:「I see you 've hitched your horse to a teaching post , and I also understand it 's difficult for you to be social .」
Will:「Well , I 'm just talking at them . I 'm not listening to them . It 's not social .」

Jack:「I see . May I ? Where do you fall on the spectrum ?」
Will:「My horse is hitched to a post that is closer to Asperger 's and autistics than narcissists and sociopaths .」
Jack:「But you can empathize with narcissists - and sociopaths .」
Will:「I can empathize with anybody . It 's less to do with a personality disorder than an active imagination .」
Jack:「Um can I borrow your imagination ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「Eight girls abducted from eight different Minnesota campuses , all in the last eight months .」
Will:「I thought there were seven .」
Jack:「There were .」
Will:「When did you tag the eighth ?」
Jack:「About three minutes before I walked into your lecture hall .」
Will:「You 're calling them abductions because you do n't have any bodies ?」
Jack:「No bodies , no parts of bodies , nothing that comes out of bodies . Nothing .」
Will:「Then those girls were n't taken from where you think they were taken .」
Jack:「Then where were they taken from ?」
Will:「I do n't know . Someplace else .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「All of them abducted on a Friday so they would n't have to be reported missing until Monday . Now , however he 's covering his tracks , he needs a weekend to do it .」
Will:「Number eight ?」
Jack:「Elise Nichols . St. Cloud State on the Mississippi . Disappeared on Friday . Was supposed to house sit for her parents over the weekend , feed the cat . She never made it home .」
Will:「Yeah , one through seven are dead , do n't you think ? He 's not keeping them around . He got himself a new one .」
Jack:「So we focus on Elise Nichols .」
Will:「They 're all very , um Mall of America . That 's a lot of wind - chafed skin .」
Jack:「Same hair colour , same eye colour . Roughly the same age . Same height , same weight . So what is it about all of these girls ?」
Will:「It 's not about all of these girls . It 's just about one of them . He 's like Willy Wonka . Every girl he takes is a candy bar , and hidden in amongst all of those candy bars is the one true intended victim , which , if we follow through on our metaphor , is your golden ticket .」
Jack:「So , is he warming up for his golden ticket , or just reliving whatever it is he did to her ?」
Will:「The golden ticket would n't be the first taken , and she would n't be the last . He would , um , hide how special she was . I mean , I would . Would n't you ?」
Jack:「I want you to get closer to this .」
Will:「No . You have Heimlich at Harvard and Bloom at Georgetown . They do the same thing I do .」

Jack:「That 's not exactly true , is it ? You have a very specific way of thinking about things .」
Will:「Has there been a lot of discussion about the , uh , specific way - I think ?」
Jack:「You make jumps you ca n't explain , Will .」
Will:「No , no . The evidence explains .」
Jack:「Then help me find some evidences .」
Will:「That may require me to be sociable .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Mr. Nichols ( echoing voice ):「She could 've gone off by herself . She she was a very interior young woman . She did n't like living in her dorm . I could see how the pressure of school might have gotten to her . She likes trains . Maybe she just got on a train and-」
Mrs. Nichols:「... She looks like the other girls .」
Jack:「Yes , she fits the profile .」
Mr. Nichols:「Could Elise still be alive ?」
Jack:「We simply have no way of knowing .」
Will:「How 's the cat ?」
Mrs. Nichols:「What ?」
Will:「How 's your cat ? Elise was supposed to feed it . Was the cat weird when you came home ? It must 've been hungry . It did n't eat all weekend .」
Mr. Nichols:「I ... I did n't notice .」
Jack:「Could you give us a moment , please ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will ( whispering ):「He took her from here . She got on a train , she came home , she fed the cat . He took her .」
Jack:「The Nichols ' house is a crime scene . I need ERT immediately . I want Zeller , Katz , and Jimmy Price . Yes , and a photographer .」
Mr. Nichols:「Why is it now a crime scene ?」
Will:「Can I see your daughter 's room ?」
Mr. Nichols:「Polices were ther this morning ...」
Will:「No - I'll get that . Mr. Nichols , please put your hands in your pockets and avoid touching anything .」
Mr. Nichols:「But we 've been in and out of here all day .」
Will:「You can hold the cat , if it 's easier .」
Mr. Nichols:「Elise-」
Will:「I need you to leave the room .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「When you 're ready to talk , you talk . If you do n't feel like it , you do n't talk . We 'll be downstairs . You let me know when you 're ready for us to come in .」
narration:siren
 soft ambient pulse
Beverly:「You 're Will Graham .」
Will:「You 're not supposed to be in here .」
Beverly:「You wrote the standard monograph on time of death by insect activity . I found antler velvet in two of the wounds . You , uh , not real FBI ?」
Will:「I 'm a special investigator .」
Beverly:「Never been an FBI agent ?」

Will:「Um strict - screening procedures .」
Beverly:「Detects instability You unstable ?」
Jack:「Now , you know you 're not supposed to be in here .」
Beverly:「I found antler velvet in two of the wounds , like she was gored . I was looking for velvet in the other wounds - but I was interrupted .」
Brian:「Hold on , excuse me . Look , deer and elk pin their prey , OK ? They put all their weight into their antlers , try and suffocate a victim . That 's how they would kill , like , a fox or a coyote .」
Jack:「All right , Elise Nichols was strangled , suffocated , her ribs are broken .」
Will:「Antler velvet is rich in nutrients . It actually promotes healing . He may have put it in there on purpose .」
Jack:「You think he was trying to heal her ?」
Will:「He wanted to undo as much as he could given that he 'd already killed her .」
Jack:「He put her back where he found her .」
Will:「Whatever he did to the others , he could n't do it to her .」
Jack:「Is this his golden ticket ?」
Will:「No . This is an apology . Does anyone have any aspirin ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Hello . Hey ! ... Hey ! Hey . Hey . Come on . Come on . Hey . Hey , come here . Hey . Winston , this is everybody . Everybody , this is Winston . ( barking ) Tss ! Tss ! That 's right .」
narration:heartbeat
Jack:「What are you doing in here ?」
Will:「I enjoy the smell of urinal cake .」
Jack:「Me too . We need to talk . USE THE LADIES ' ROOM ! You respect my judgment , Will ? Mm - hmm .」
Will:「Yes .」
Jack:「Good , because we will stand a better chance of catching this guy with you in the saddle .」
Will:「Yeah , I 'm in the saddle . I 'm just , um , confused which direction I 'm pointing . I do n't know this kind of psychopath . I 've never read about him . I do n't even know if he 's a psychopath . He 's not insensitive . He 's not shallow .」
Jack:「You know something about him ; otherwise , you would n't have said , " This is an apology " . What is he apologizing for ?」
Will:「He could n't honour her . He feels bad .」
Jack:「Well , feeling bad defeats the purpose of being a psychopath , does n't it ?」
Will:「Yes ! It does .」
Jack:「Then what kind of crazy is he ? !」
Will:「He could n't show her he loved her , so he put her corpse back where he killed it . Whatever crazy that is .」
Jack:「You think he loves these girls ?」
Will:「He loves one of them . A - And , yes , I think by association he has some form of love for the others .」

Jack:「There was no semen , there was no saliva . Elise Nichols died a virgin . She stayed that way .」
Will:「That 's not how he 's loving them . He would n't disrespect them that way ! He does n't want these girls to suffer . He kills them quickly and to his thinking , with mercy .」
Jack:「Sensitive psychopath . Risked getting caught so he could tuck Elise Nichols back into bed .」
Will:「He has to take the next girl soon 'cause he knows he 's gon na get caught . One way or the other .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Beverly:「I got you .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「Graham likes you . Does n't think you 'll run any mind games on him .」
Alana:「I do n't . I 'm as honest with him as I 'd be with a patient .」
Jack:「You 've been observing him while you 've been guest lecturing here at the academy , yes ?」
Alana:「I 've never been in a room alone with Will .」
Jack:「Why not ?」
Alana:「Because I want to be his friend , and I am .」
Jack:「Ah , it seems a shame not to take advantage snd academically speaking .」
Alana:「You already asked me to do a study on him , Jack . I said no . And anything scholarly on Will Graham would have to be published posthumously .」
Jack:「So , you 've never been alone with him because you have a professional curiosity about him . ( Jack chuckles . )」
Alana:「Normally I would n't even broach this , but what do you think one of Will 's strongest drives is ?」
Jack:「Fear .」
Alana:「Mm - hmm .」
Jack:「Will Graham deals with huge amounts of fear . It comes with his imagination .」
Alana:「It 's the price of imagination .」
Jack:「Alana , I would n't put him out there if I did n't think I could cover him . All right , if I did n't think I could cover him 80 % .」
Alana:「I would n't put him out there .」
Jack:「He 's out there . I need him out there . Should he get too close , I need you to make sure he 's not out there alone .」
Alana:「Promise me something , Jack . Do n't let him get too close .」
Jack:「He wo n't ... get too close .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jimmy ( sighing ):「OK . Tried her skin for prints of course nothing . We did get a hand spread off her neck .」
Beverly:「Report say anything about nails ?」
Brian:「Fingernails were smudged when we took the scrapings . The scrapings were from her own palms when she scratched them . She never scratched him .」
Beverly:「Piece of metal is all we got .」

Will:「We should be looking at plumbers , steamfitters , tool workers .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Brian:「Other injuries were probably but not conclusively post - mortem . So not gored .」
Beverly:「She has lots of piercings that look like they were caused by deer antlers . I did n't say the deer was responsible for putting them there .」
Will:「She was mounted on them . Like hooks . She may have been bled .」
Brian:「Her liver was removed .」
Jimmy:「See that ? He took it out , and then - yep , he put it back in .」
Brian:「Huh .」
Jimmy:「Why would he cut it out if he 's just gon na sew it back in again ?」
Will:「Something wrong with the meat ?」
Brian:「She has liver cancer .」
Will:「He 's , um he 's eating them .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 crying
Franklin:「Please ... Thank you . I hate being this neurotic .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「If you were n't neurotic , Franklyn , you would be something much worse . Our brain is designed to experience anxiety in short bursts , not the prolonged duress yours has seemed to enjoy . That 's why you feel as though a lion were on the verge of devouring you . Franklyn ...」

narration:crying
Franklin:「Yes .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You have to convince yourself the lion is not in the room . When it is , I assure you , you will know .」
Jack:「Dr. Lecter . I 'm , uh , Special Ag-」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I hate to be discourteous , but this is a private exit for my patients .」
Jack:「Oh , Dr. Lecter . Sorry . Um , I 'm , uh , Special Agent Jack Crawford , FBI . May I come in ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You may wait in the waiting room . Franklyn , I 'll see you next week .」
Franklin:「Yes .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Unless , of course , this is about him .」
Jack:「No , this is all about you .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Please , come in . So , may I ask how this is all about me ?」
Jack:「You can ask , but I may have to ask you a few questions first . You expecting another patient ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「We 're all alone .」
Jack:「Oh , good . No secretary ?」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Was predispositioned to romantic whims . Followed her heart to the United Kingdom . ( Jack chuckles . ) Sad to see her go .」
Jack:「Wow . Are these yours , Doctor ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Among the first . My boarding school in Paris when I was a boy .」
Jack:「The amount of detail is incredible .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I learned very early a scalpel cuts better points than a pencil sharpener .」
Jack:「Well , now I understand why your drawings earned you an internship at Johns Hopkins .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm beginning to suspect you 're investigating me , - Agent Crawford .」
Jack ( Chuckling ):「No , no . No , you were referred to me by Alana Bloom in the psychology department Georgetown .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Most psychology departments are filled with personality deficients . Dr. Bloom would be the exception .」
Jack:「Yes , she would . Yes , she would . Well , she told me that you mentored her during her residency at Johns Hopkins .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I learned as much from her as she did from me .」

Jack:「Yes , but she also showed me , uh , your paper . " Evolutionary " uh , " Evolutionary Origins of Social Exclusion " ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes .」
Jack:「Very interesting . Very interesting . Even for a layman .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「A layman ?」
Jack:「Yeah .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「So many learned fellows going about in the halls of Behavioral Science - at the FBI , and you consider yourself a layman .」
Jack:「I do when I 'm in your company , doctor . Um , I need you to help me with a psychological profile .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Tell me , then , how many confessions ?」
Jack:「Twelve dozen , the last time I checked . None of them had any details until this morning . And then they all had details . Some genius in Duluth PD took a photograph of Elise Nichols ' body with his cell phone , shared it with his friends , and then Freddy Lounds posted it on Tattlecrime.com .」
Will:「Tasteless .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Do you have trouble with taste ?」
Will:「My thoughts are often not tasty .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Nor mine . No effective barriers .」
Will:「I build forts .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Associations come quickly .」
Will:「So do forts .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Not fond of eye contact , are you ?」
Will:「Eyes are distracting you see too much , you do n't see enough . And - And it 's hard to focus when you 're thinking , um , " Oh , those whites are really white " , or , " He must have hepatitis " , or , " Oh , is that a burst " vein ? " So , yeah , I try to avoid eyes whenever possible . Jack ?」
Jack:「Yes ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I imagine what you see and learn touches everything else in your mind . Your values and decency are present yet shocked at your associations , appalled at your dreams . No forts in the bone arena of your skull for things you love .」
Will:「Whose profile are you working on ? Whose profile is he working on ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm sorry , Will . Observing is what we do . I ca n't shut mine off any more than you can shut yours off .」

Will:「Please , do n't psychoanalyze me . You wo n't like me when I 'm psychoanalyzed .」
Jack:「Will .」
Will:「Now , if you 'll excuse me , I have to go give a lecture on psychoanalyzing .」
Jack:「Maybe we should n't poke him like that , Doctor . Perhaps a less , uh , direct approach .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What he has is pure empathy . He can assume your point of view , or mine , and maybe some other points of view that scare him . It 's an uncomfortable gift , Jack .」
Jack:「Hum .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Perception 's a tool that 's pointed on both ends . This cannibal you have him getting to know I think I can help good Will see his face .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「Stag head was reported stolen last night , about a mile from here .」
Will:「Just the head ?」
Jack:「Minneapolis Homicide 's already made a statement . They 're calling him the Minnesota Shrike .」
Will:「Like the bird ?」

Jimmy:「Shrike 's a perching bird . Impales mice and lizards on thorny branches and barbed wire . Rips their organs right out of their bodies , puts them in a little birdie pantry , and eats them later .」
Jack:「I ca n't tell whether it 's sloppy - or shrewd .」
Will:「He wanted her found this way . It 's ... it 's petulant . I almost feel like he 's mocking her . Or he 's mocking us .」
Jack:「Where did all his love go ?」
Will:「Whoever tucked Elise Nichols into bed did n't paint this picture .」
Brian:「He took her lungs . I 'm pretty sure she was alive when he cut 'em out .」
Will:「Our cannibal loves women . He does n't want to destroy them . He wants to consume them , to keep some part of them inside . This girl 's killer thought that she was a pig .」
Jack:「You think this was a copycat ?」
Will:「The cannibal who killed Elise Nichols had a place to do it and no interest in in field kabuki . So , he has a house , or two , or a - a cabin something with an antler room . He has a daughter . The same age as the other girls . Same - same hair colour , same eye colour , same height , same weight . She 's an only child . She 's leaving home . He ca n't stand the thought of losing her . She 's his golden ticket .」
Jack:「What about the copycat ?」
Will:「You know , an intelligent psychopath , particularly a sadist , is very hard to catch . There 's no traceable motive , there 'll be no patterns . He may never kill this way again . Have Dr. Lecter draw up a psychological profile . You seemed very impressed with his opinion .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 knocking on door
 blankets shuffling
 footsteps
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Good morning , Will . May I come in ?」

Will:「Where 's Crawford ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Deposed in court . The adventure will be yours and mine today . May I come in ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm very careful about what I put into my body , which means I end up preparing most meals myself . A little protein scramble to start the day . Some eggs , some sausage .」
Will:「Mm , it 's delicious . Thank you .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「My pleasure .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I would apologize for my analytical ambush , but I know I will soon be apologizing again and you 'll tire of that eventually , so I have to consider using apologies sparingly .」
Will:「Just keep it professional .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Or we could socialize , like adults . God forbid we become friendly .」
Will:「I do n't find you that interesting .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You will .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Agent Crawford tells me you have a knack for the monsters .」
Will:「I do n't think the Shrike killed that girl in the field .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「The devil is in the details . What did n't your copycat do to the girl in the field ? What gave it away ?」
Will:「Everything . It 's like he had to show me a negative so that I could see the positive . That crime scene was practically gift - wrapped .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「The mathematics of human behaviour all those ugly variables . Some bad math with this Shrike fellow , huh ? Are you reconstructing his fantasies ?」
Will:「Heh .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What kind of problems ? Does he have ?」
Will:「Uh , he has a few .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You ever have any problems , Will ?」
Will:「No .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Of course you do n't . You and I are just alike problem - free . Nothing about us to feel horrible about . You know , Will ? I think Uncle Jack sees you as a fragile little teacup . The finest China , used for only special guests .」
Will ( laughing ):「How do you see me ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「The mongoose I want under the house when the snakes slither by . Finish your breakfast .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「What are you smiling at ?」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Peeking behind the curtain . I 'm just curious how the FBI goes about its business when it 's not kicking in doors .」
Will:「You 're lucky we 're not doing house - to - house interviews . We found a little piece of metal in Elise Nichols ' clothes a shred from a pipe threader .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「There must be hundreds of construction sites all over Minnesota .」
Will:「A certain kind of metal , certain kind of pipe , certain kind of pipe coating , so we 're checking all the construction sites that use that kind of pipe .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What are we looking for ?」
Will:「At this stage , anything really . But mostly , anything peculiar .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Woman:「Two fellas from the FBI . They goin' through the drawers now . Mm - hmm . Puttin ' papers in file boxes . Yes , they are takin ' things . No . Well , they did n't say- Yes , they can . What did you say your names were ?」
Will:「Jimmyt Jacob Hobbs ?」

Woman:「He 's one of our pipe threaders . Those are all the resignation letters . Plumbers ' Union requires 'em whenever members finish a job . ( whispering ) I 'll call you back .」
Will:「Uh , does Mr. Hobbs have a daughter ?」
Woman:「Might have .」
Will:「Eighteen or 19 , wind - chafed , uh , plain but pretty . She 'd have auburn hair , about this tall .」
Woman:「Maybe . I do n't know . I do n't keep company with these people .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What is it about Jimmyt Jacob Hobbs you find so peculiar ?」
Will:「He left a phone number , no address .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「And therefore he has something to hide ?」
Will:「The others all left addresses . Do you have an address for Mr. Hobbs ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「I got it .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abagail:「Hello ? Just a second . Dad ! It 's for you !」
Mr. Hobbs:「Who is this ?」
Abagail:「Caller ID said it was blocked .」
Mr. Hobbs:「Hello ?」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Mr. Jimmyt Jacob Hobbs ?」
Mr. Hobbs:「Yeah .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You do n't know me and I suspect we 'll never meet . This is a courtesy call . Listen very carefully . Are you listening ?」
Mr. Hobbs:「Yes .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「They know .」

narration:[PREVIOUSLY_ON]
 Garrett jacob hobbs Did n't kill cassie boyle . I know . Dad ? It 's for you . I believe the as yet unidentified caller Was our copycat killer . I wanna go home . You do this a lot ? Go places and think about killing ? Too often . Abigail !
 screaming
 I did n't kill that girl ... This is not self - defence , abigail . You butchered him . You 're the one who called the house . If I keep your secret ... Then I 'll keep yours .
Will:「Sometimes ... at night I leave the lights on in my little house , and ... walk across the flat fields and ... when I look back from a distance , the house is like a boat on the sea . It 's really the only time I feel safe .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You stood in the breathing silence of Gareth Jacob Hobbs ' home , the very spaces he moved through . Tell me Will ... did they speak to you ?」
Will:「With noise and clarity .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You could sense his madness , like a bloodhound ...」
Will:「I tried so hard to know Gareth Jacob Hobbs . To see him .
 Gareth Jacob Hobbs , FBI !」
narration:gunshot

Will:「Past the slides and viles , beyond the lines of the police report , between the pixels of all those printed faces of sad dead girls .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Mr. Hobbs:「See .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「How did you feel seeing Marissa Shore , impaled in his antler room ?」
Will:「Guilty .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Because you could n't save her .」
Will:「Because I felt like I killed her ... I got so close to him . Sometimes ... I felt like we were doing the same things at different times of day ... like I was eating ... or showering or sleeping at the same time he was .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Even after he was dead ?」
Will:「Even after he was dead .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Like ... you were becoming him .」
Will:「I know who I am . I 'm not Gareth Jacob Hobbs , Dr. Lecter .」
narration:sound of heart beating
 heart beating
 inhaling

Will:「Table has been set . Family dinner . I was n't invited . I take my seat at the head of the table . My seat . My place setting next to Mrs. Turner . I am the guest of honor . Nobody has taken a bite of their dinner . If you do n't eat your growing foods , you wo n't get any dessert . No one leaves the table . All afraid to move , even the little ones behave themselves . I brought my own family to this home invasion . Controlling the Turners with threats of violence threats that turn to action .」
narration:gunshots
 woman crying
 The Turner family is executed simultaneously . With the exception of Mrs Turner who dies last . This is my design . I shoot Mrs. Turner .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「What do you see Will ?」
Will:「Family values .」
Jack:「Whose family values ?」
narration:he plays a few notes
Jack:「Alright , Karen and Roger Turner , childhood sweethearts . Owned a successful real estate business . Pillars of the community , three children .」
Will:「Minus one .」
Jack:「Uh , a son ... Jesse , disappeared last year . Last confirmed sighting had him boarding an RV ... at a rest stop on Route 47 . Possible runaway , probable abduction .」
Will:「Or both .」
Jack:「When misery rains , it pours .」
Will:「False faces in family portraits . Layers and layers of lies , betrayed by ... a sad glint in the child 's eyes .」
Jimmy:「Norman Rockwell with a bullet .」
Jack:「Alright , any signs of forced entry ?」
Beverly:「No broken windows or torn screens . All sealed up tight .」
Jack:「-Yeah , they probably rang the front door .」
Beverly:「I got bullet holes on the upper sections of the wall , and again over here .」
Jack:「Okay . Pull the slugs for ballistics .」
Beverly:「They are n't frangible , should n't be a problem .」
Brian:「Elevated termination points match for the scene with these bodies . Angular cranial impact , coupled with ... acute exit wounds , conical spray . Shooter went low to high , probably crouching .」
Will:「When was Jesse abducted ?」
Jack:「Uh , a little over a year ago .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「I can hide what happened to me . All I need is a scarf to pass .」
Alana:「Hiding what happened to you defeats the purpose of being here . Sharing will help normalize .」
Abigail:「I 'm not normal ... not anymore .」
Alana:「What happened to you was abnormal」
Abigail:「Some of these women are n't even sharing . They speak in " little girl voices " , telling everyone what was done to them without saying a word about it .」
Alana:「Certain traumas can arrest vocal development . And victims can sometimes broadcast victimhood involuntarily .」
Abigail:「Not me .」
Alana:「That 's not necessarily true . Your victimhood has a high profile .」

Abigail:「Celebrity victim . Someone here asked me if I kept my stained clothes . How did that make you feel ?」
Alana:「Like I wanted to go home .」
Abigail:「But I do n't have a home anymore , do I ?」
Alana:「You will . You will , I 'll help you find it . Abigail , I 'd like you to give the support group another chance .」
Abigail:「Support groups are sucking the life out of me .」
Alana:「Well , isolation can suck just as much . You have to find someone to relate to in this experience .」
narration:classical music playing
 knock on door
Alana:「Hi .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Do you have an appointment ?」
Alana:「Do you have a beer ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Interesting day with Abigail ?」
Alana:「Yeah , with grief work . Trauma , intervention . It 's all on course . I think she might be wrestling with a low grade depression .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「She ?」
Alana:「Nothing wrong with a little self medication ... right , Doctor ? Professional neutrality be damned . It 's so hard to watch a bright young girl go so adrift .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Perhaps it 's time Abigail is released from clinical treatment .」
Alana:「Released where ? Back into the wild ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Spending each day immersed in tragedy may be doing more harm than good . She should be out in the world . Finding her footing , giving her the confidence to move forward .」
Alana:「Abigail is in no condition to tackle her real world issues . Where 's she gon na live ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm not suggesting abandonment .」
Alana:「Hannibal , this is a girl who was very attached to her parents . You stepping in as a surrogate , would only be a crutch . I think Abigail needs to figure things out for herself in a safe ... clinical environment . And that will give her the confidence to move forward .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I defer to the passion of my esteemed colleague . Passion 's good . Gets blood pumping .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Brian:「I 'm glad we did n't have guns in my house . Would have shot my sisters just to get them out of the bathroom .」
Beverly:「I liked having a big family .」
Jimmy:「My parents gave me a gift , a twin . Who would n't want two of me ?」

Brian:「Let me guess ... only child .」
Will:「Why do you say that ?」
Brian:「Because family friction is usually a catalyst for personality development .」
Beverly:「I was the oldest so ... all the friction rolled downhill .」
Jack:「Yes , all the intention and responsibility is heaved on firstborn children . Prepares them for ... success in the future .」
Beverly:「My baby sister got away with murder . She had them all fooled .」
Jimmy:「I thought middles were the problem .」
Brian:「Middle 's the sweet spot .」
Will:「Always trying to figure out where they fit in ? They can be great ... politicians . Or lousy ones .」
Jack:「All the victims have defensive wounds except for Mrs. Turner .」
Will:「There 's forgiveness .」
Jack:「What kind of victim forgives their killer at the moment of death ?」
Will:「A mother .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Tell me about your mother .」
Will:「Some lazy psychiatry , Doctor Lecter . Low hanging fruit .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I suspect that fruit is on a high branch . Very difficult to reach .」
Will:「So is my mother . Never knew her .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「An interesting place to start .」
Will:「Tell me about your mother . Let 's start there .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Both my parents died when I was very young . The proverbial orphan until I was adopted by my Uncle Robertos when I was 16 .」
Will:「You have orphan in common with Abigail Hobbs .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I think you 'll discover that you and I have a great deal in common with Abigail . She 's already demonstrated an aptitude for the psychological .」
Will:「There 's something so foreign about family ... like an ill - fitting suit . I never connected to the concept .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You created a family for yourself .」
Will:「I 've only connected a family of strays , and thank you for feeding them while I was away .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I was referring to Abigail . Tell me about the Turner family , were they affluent , well to do ? They lived like they had money .Did your family have money , Will ?」
Will:「We were poor . I followed my father from the boatyards of ... Biloxi and Greenville , to lakeboats on Eerie .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Always the new boy at school , always the stranger .」
Will:「Always .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What grudge was Mrs. Turner 's killer harboring against her ?」
Will:「Motherhood .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Not motherhood . A perversion of it .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「A modified Boudin Noir from Ali Bab 's Gastronomie Pratique . You promised to deliver your wife to my dinner table .」
Jack:「Well we 'll have to polish up our act , we ca n't have you diagnosing our marital problems all in one fell swoop . What am I about to put in my mouth ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Rabbit .」
Jack:「He should have hopped faster .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes , he should have . ( screaming ) But , fortunately for us , he did not .」
Jack:「-Mmm mmm . Our friend Will seems haunted today .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「We do n't know what nightmares lie coiled beneath Will 's pillow .」
Jack:「Children killing other children is ... not that unfamiliar a notion to Will .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「He still suspects Abigail Hobbs in her father 's crimes .」
Jack:「Perhaps the nightmare under Will 's pillow ... is that he was wrong about her .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Children transport us to our childhoods . Will may feel the tug of life before the FBI , before you . Simpler times in boatyards with dad . That life is an anchor streamed behind him in heavy weather . He needs an anchor , Jack .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Beverly:「One pair of size 6 sneakers from the Turner house . The tread on left indicates uneven leg length .」
Brian:「Is that unusual ? Hmm , not in a 12 year old . Growth plates all out of whack . Got one foot that 's bigger , one leg that 's longer , puberty in full effect .」
Beverly:「How did Jesse Turner turn out ? No one has seen him in over a year .」
Brian:「I extrapolated the present height and weight from abduction stats . Even with the usual growth spurts between eleven and twelve , he 'd be four and a half feet , eighty pounds tops .」
Jimmy:「God 's gift to trace analysts . Greasy fingerprints all over these things . No matches but they 're gorgeous .」

Beverly:「Isolated seven pairs of shoe prints . Filtered out the Turners ' including Jesse 's , so we 're down to three unsubs , sneakers are sizes seven three and a half , and a boy 's eleven .」
Brian:「The lost boy 's .」
Jimmy:「I think I found one of them .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Most of the time in sexual assaults , the bite mark has a livid spot at the center , a " suck bruise " . In some cases it does not . For some killers biting may be a fighting pattern , as much as a sexual behavior .」
Jack:「Ok , class dismissed . Everyone out ! What did I just say ? ! Let 's go !」
Will:「You 're making it difficult to provide an education , Jack .」
Jack:「We found a match to a set of prints we pulled from the Turner home . They belong to a thirteen year old boy from Reston , Virginia . His name is Connor Frist .」
Will:「Another kid ?」
Jack:「Another missing kid . Vanished ten months ago , case was never solved .」
Will:「How many kids in the Frist family ?」
Jack:「Three , just like the Turner family . We 're ready to go when you are , and you 're ready to go now . So , let 's go .」
Will:「You 're expecting a crime scene .」
Jack:「Yes , I am .」
narration:festive music
 ♪ there is no christmas ♪ ♪ like a home christmas ♪ ♪ with your dad and mom and sis and brother there ♪ ♪ with their hearts humming ♪
 coughing
 ♪ at your homecoming ♪
 coughing
 ♪ and that merry yuletide spirit in the air ♪
Jack:「Mr. Frist and the children killed first , saving Mrs. Frist for last . Same as the Turners .」
Will:「Not exactly the same . Something went wrong .」
Beverly:「Not a single present under the tree for Mrs. Frist .」
Will:「He took her presents , he took her motherhood .」
Brian:「Shooting her once was n't enough . The first bullet , travels beneath her scalp ... to its final resting place , base of her neck .」
Jack:「And it still did n't kill her .」
Beverly:「Hydrostatic shock of shell hitting skull would have caused brain damage .」
Will:「Her body went into convulsions .」
Brian:「He shot her again . Put her out of her misery , different gun .」
Jimmy:「So , someone else shot Connor 's mom .」
Jack:「So who is our additional corpse in the fireplace ?」
Will:「I 'd say Connor Frist . He 'd been prepped to shoot his mother , not watch her suffer .」
Jack:「Connor could n't put his panic back in the bottle . So he got shot too .」
Will:「Whoever shot him ... disowned him .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]

C.J.:「Do n't be sad about Connor .」
Kidnapper:「I guess I could n't make him understand . The family you 're born into is n't really family . Cause they 're just people you did n't choose . You have to make family , that 's what we 're doing , we 're making our family .」
Christopher:「What happened to your family ?」
C.J.:「We 're her family .」
Christopher:「I meant ... your other family .」
Kidnapper:「The family you think is family , is just a stepping stone to real family . Are you feeling ok , sweetie pie ?」
C.J.:「He 's fine .」
Kidnapper:「C.J .. You should be excited to go home . Even if it is to say goodbye , 'cause we 're your family now , Christopher . You can only have one family .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Beverly:「Ever heard of Willard Wigan ? He 's this artist that does micro sculptures . Like , putting the Obamas in the eye of a needle . He 's so focused that he can work between beats of his heart . I guess archers do the same thing , right ?」
Will:「Hmm ?」
Beverly:「What are you looking at ?」
Will:「Both these kids are small , underweight for their age .」
Beverly:「You think there 's a connection ?」
Will:「I 'm thinking possible ADHD diagnosis for both boys . Ritalin , Focalin , any medication containing Methylphenidate can affect appetite and slow long - term growth in kids .」
Beverly:「Another thing about Willard Wigan ... he had a lonely childhood . He used his tiny sculptures as an escape .」
Will:「Who 's Willard Wigan ?」
Beverly:「Price got a hit on the ballistics matching program he 's been running on the two family murders . The bullet that put Mrs Frist out of her misery matches three used in a murder in Bangor , Maine a year ago . Mother of a thirteen year old boy shot to death with her own gun .」
Will:「Thirteen year old milk carton material .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「C.J. Lincoln disappeared six months before his mother 's murder . He has n't been seen since .」
Will:「He has none of the characteristics of a sadist or a sociopath .」
Jack:「Right , no shoplifting , no malicious destruction of property . No assault , no battery . He was kind to animals , for God 's sake .」
Will:「Firearm says we are looking at Peter Pan to our lost boys .」
Jack:「But it takes a sophisticated level of manipulation to convince young boys to kill their families in cold blood .」
Will:「Kindness to animals does n't suggest that particular kind of sophistication .」
Jack:「Well , he 's older , he 's been out in the world . Maybe he picked up a few things .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]

Kidnapper:「There you go . Thank you so much . Oh honey ... Oh jeez ! Are you feeling okat , honey ? You have a fever ? You do n't feel warm .」
Assistant:「Here you go , ma'am .」
Kidnapper:「Oh thank you . He has n't done this before . I 'll pay for the napkins .」
Assistant:「Do n't worry about it .」
Kidnapper:「Oh honey , oh gee , whiz ... I 'm so embarrassed . But you should n't feel embarrassed , this happens with little bladders , right ? Right ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Good evening , Will . Please come in . Has Christmas come early ? Or late ?」
Will:「Was for Abigail .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Was ?」
Will:「I thought better of it , I was n't thinking straight , I was upset when I bought it . Maybe still am .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What is it ?」
Will:「A magnifying glass . Fly tying gear .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Teaching her how to fish . Her father taught her how to hunt .」
Will:「That 's why I thought better of it .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Pretty paternal , Will .」
Will:「Are n't you ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes . Our good friend Doctor Bloom has advised against taking too personal an interest in Abigail 's welfare . Tell me why are you so angry ?」
Will:「I 'm angry about those boys , I 'm angry because I know when I find them , I ca n't help them . I ca n't , I ca n't give them back what they just gave away .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Family .」
Will:「Yeah . We call them " The lost boys " .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Abigail 's lost too . And perhaps it 's our responsibility ... yours and mine to help her find her way .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「I do n't think I 'm allowed to leave , after I climb the fence .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 've made arrangements . You could say I 'm ... one of your guardians .」
Abigail:「Where are we going ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Home . My home . I thought you might enjoy if I cooked for you . I 'll have you back before bedtime .」

Abigail:「Ca n't I spend the night ? I do n't like sleeping here , I have bad dreams .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You have to sleep in your own bed .」
Abigail:「This is n't my bed .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Tell me about your bad dreams .」
Abigail:「I had one where ... Marissa was sending me picture texts . Like crime scene photos of Nicholas Boyle . Gutted .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「How you left him .」
Abigail:「Even though she 's dead , I 'm afraid that Marissa 's gon na tell everyone I killed him and they 'll think I 'm just like my dad . Sorry . Ca n't really talk about this , in group .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You do n't have that luxury , Abigail .」
Abigail:「I just have to get used to lying .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You only have to lie about one thing . And when you 're with me you do n't have to lie about anything .」
Abigail:「In the dream I wonder how I could live with myself . Knowing what I did .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「And when you 're awake ?」

Abigail:「When I 'm awake , I know I can live with myself . And I 'll just get used to what I did . Does that make me a sociopath ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「No . It makes you a survivor .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「It 's important to know when it 's time to turn the page . Have you thought about applying for schools ?」
Abigail:「My dad killed girls at all the schools I applied to .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Perhaps that can wait then .」
Abigail:「I wanna work for the FBI .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I would certainly feel safer if you were in the FBI ... protecting my interests .」
Abigail:「They would n't let me though , would they ? Because of what my dad did .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Only if they believe that 's in your nature too .」
Abigail:「Nature versus nurture .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You 're not your father 's daughter , not anymore . What if it were n't so painful anymore , to think of him ?」
Abigail:「My dad ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes . Have you ever tried Psilocybin ?」

Abigail:「Mushrooms ? That 's what 's in the tea ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes . There are those psychiatrists who believe that altered states could be used to access traumatic memories .」
Abigail:「I have all the access to traumatic memories I need . Unlimited access .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Which is why we need to supplement them with positive associations . No more bad dreams , Abigail .」
Abigail:「You want me to do drugs ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I want you to do this drug . With my supervision it 's quite safe . Do you trust me ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「Bangor , Maine . Stamford , Connecticut , and recently Reston , Virginia .」
Jimmy:「This places each of the murders approximately five hundred miles from the one before it .」
Jack:「Right .」
Brian:「You 're trying to establish a geographical pattern , when the murders were weeks apart .」
Will:「Other patterns too . Our shooters are minors middle children from traditional affluent families .」
Jack:「We know they 're moving South , so that means we wanna cover the border of North Carolina and Georgia . We need to get files on every missing boy within two hundred miles of North Carolina .」

Will:「There 's a pattern , less to do with geography than psychology .」
Jack:「What kind of kid does this ?」
Will:「And what kind of kid follows a kid who does this ?」
Jack:「There 's no indication that these kids came from abusive families .」
Will:「No , no , no . Capture bonding . A passive psychological response to a new master has been an essential survival tool for a million years . Bond with your captor , you survive . You do n't ... you 're breakfast .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Mr. Hobbs:「Just like we talked about .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「Doctor Bloom said this was OK .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Not at all , we often have a difference of opinion .」
Abigail:「More secrets for us .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Well . You and I will have many secrets . Infusing Psilosybin into the bloodstream before psychotherapy ... can illicit a positive , even spiritual experience for patients . Psychological trauma is an affliction of the powerless . I want to give you your power back .」
Abigail:「I do n't feel so good .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「That feeling will pass . Allow it to wash over you , through you . Let me be your guide .」
Abigail:「You 're making breakfast for dinner ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「High life eggs . A chef in Spain called Muro claimed he invented it in the 19th century . Taste , is not only biochemical ... it 's also psychological .」
Abigail:「Sausage and eggs was the last meal I was having with my parents .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I know . It 's also the first meal you 're having with me .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Beverly:「Without the interference of a leader , these kids would never consider violent action .」
Will:「Our missing kid is a boy . A paradox in the midst of a normal family」
Beverly:「Here 's one . Family moved from Biloxi to Charleston to Fayetteville in the last three years . He won a junior high award for his work on pretty sophisticated computer circuitry .」
Alana:「Why do you think these kids are susceptible to C.J Lincoln ?」
Will:「'Cause our boy may have a brother , but their ages or their interests keep them apart , so he 's a brother without a brother .」

Alana:「Brothers looking for a mother . They 're killing the mothers last .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「Yeah .」
Will:「It 's not just C.J Lincoln . There 's an adult with some ... formative sway . It 's a woman , a mother figure I think . And she 's looking to form a family .」
Jack:「A family can have a contagion effect on some people . Influences them to adopt ... similar behaviors and attitudes .」
Will:「Whoever this woman is , she wants these children .. to burst with love for her . But ... she has to erase their family to do that .」
Jack:「So she abducts them . Convinces them no one can love them as much as she does , and then makes damn sure of it .」
Will:「A security camera in ... a convenient store in Alexandria , Virginia caught footage of one Chris O'Halloran this morning , he was with an unidentified woman .」
Jack:「Where 's this kid 's parents ?」
Will:「Fayetteville , North Carolina .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Mrs. O'Halloran:「Christopher ?」
Christopher:「Hi , mom .」
Mrs. O'Halloran:「Oh , my God ! Chris .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Mrs. O'Halloran:「No , no , no !」
FBI:「Down ! Down on the ground right now !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Chris , wait . Do n't shoot . It 's OK . You 're home now , put the gun down , Christopher .」
Kidnapper:「Shoot him , Christopher .」
Will:「Christopher . Please .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Christopher:「Can I go home now ?」
Jack:「Well , I do n't think you 're gon na go home for a long time . You came here to kill your family , that 's all anybody knows . It may be all that anyone ever believes .」
Christopher:「I was n't gon na do it .」
Jack:「Well , you 're gon na have to talk to a lot of people about it . And those people are gon na try and help you understand what you were really trying to do .」
Christopher:「She told me ... that they were n't my family ... that we had to make our own family . Do you have a family ?」
Jack:「I do n't have any children , no .」
Christopher:「Then you do n't know what it 's like . Can I talk to my mom ? My real mom .」
Jack:「In a little while . But first I need you to talk to me .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Alana:「As someone who makes such a big deal about common courtesy , I 'm a little taken aback . Slash a lot taken aback , that you would take my patient ... my patient ! Out of the hospital without my permission . And I 'm not a professional scold ... but do n't put me in this position ever again .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm sorry .」
Alana:「Rude ! Hannibal shockingly rude !」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You have every right to be upset with me . I overstepped my bounds .」
Alana:「Where is she ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「She 's in the dining room . And , Alana ... you were right .」
Alana:「Often am . You have to be more specific .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「She was n't ready to leave the hospital , she ... experienced a bit of anxiety so I gave her a sedative .」
Alana:「Sedative ? What did you give her ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I only gave her half a Valium , but she may be a little hazy .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「Hi , Doctor Bloom .」
Alana:「Hello , Abigail . You were expecting me ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Please .」
Abigail:「You hungry ? Hannibal made breakfast for dinner .」
Alana:「I could eat .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What is it ? Abigail . What do you see ?」

narration:[PREVIOUSLY_ON]
 Can you tell me what that man is doing over there ? He 's some kind of special consultant for the FBI . I asked you to get close to the Hobbs thing . I need to know you did n't get too close . What you need is a way out of dark places when Jack sends you there . Last time he sent me into a dark place , I brought something back . A surrogate daughter ? Abigail Hobbs is a suspect ? She would make the ideal bait . Would n't she ? Just a second . Dad ? It 's for you . Hello ? They know .
 Birds chirping
 Cicadas buzzing
Mr. Hobbs:「Easy , Abigail . You should wait for your shot .」
narration:Gunshot
 Soft thud
Abigail:「Ready ? Three , two , one .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「She was so pretty .」
Mr. Hobbs:「She is so pretty .」
Abigail:「Are n't deer supposed to be complex , emotional creatures ?」
Mr. Hobbs:「Yeah ...」
Abigail:「I read they 're like the equivalent of a four - year - old human .」
Mr. Hobbs:「They 're smarter than a four - year - old .」
Abigail:「And they care about each other . They care about their environment . They tread lightly through the underbrush because they do n't want to hurt the plants .」
Mr. Hobbs:「They 're a lot like us . And we 're gon na honor every part of her . Her hide is gon na make a beautiful rug . Her leg bones we can carve into knives . None of her is gon na go to waste . Just like we talked about . Start at the sternum . Keep the blade pointed up . Damage the organs , you ruin the meat .」
narration:Blood spilling
Abigail:「I do n't know how I 'm gon na feel about eating her after all this .」
Mr. Hobbs:「Eating her is honoring her . Otherwise , it 's it 's just murder .」
Abigail:「Ok .」
Mr. Hobbs:「Nice and easy . Big breath . Good ...」
narration:Blood spilling
 Monitors beeping
 Muffled whimpering and coughing
 Dog barking
Alana:「Morning !」
Will:「Did n't hear you drive up .」
Alana:「Hybrid . Great car for stalking .」
Will:「Um , I 'm compelled to go cover myself .」
Alana:「I have brothers .」
Will:「Well , I 'll put a robe on just the same . You want a cup of coffee ? And more immediately , why are you here ?」
Alana:「Yes , and Abigail Hobbs woke up .」
Will:「Well , you know how to bury the lead .」
Alana:「You want me to get you a cup of coffee ?」
Will:「No . I want to get my coat .」
Alana:「Let 's have a cup of coffee .」

narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Ringing
 Cell phone vibrating
Will:「Is he gon na keep calling ?」
Alana:「Jack wants you to go see her .」
Will:「And you do n't .」
Alana:「Eventually . Jack thinks Abigail was an accomplice to her father 's crimes . I do n't want to get in the middle of you and Jack , but if I can be helpful to you as a buffer-」
Will:「I - I like you as a buffer . I also like the fact that you rattle Jack . He respects you far too much to yell at you , no matter ... how much he wants to .」
Alana:「And I take advantage of that .」
Will:「Abigail Hobbs does n't have anyone .」
Alana:「You ca n't be her everyone . When I said what I was going to say in my head , it sounded really insulting , so I 'm going to find another way to say it .」
Will:「Say it the insulting way .」
Alana:「Dogs keep a promise a person ca n't .」
Will:「I 'm not collecting another stray .」
Alana:「The first person Abigail talks to about what happened ca n't be anyone who was there when it happened . So that means no Dr. Lecter either .」
Will:「Yeah , much less the guy who killed dad . Jack 's wrong about Abigail .」
Alana:「Let me reach out to her in my own way .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Alana:「Hi . I 'm Alana Bloom .」
Abigail:「Are ... you a doctor ?」
Alana:「Not medicine . I 'm a psychiatrist .」
Abigail:「What do you specialize in ?」
Alana:「Among other things , family trauma .」
Abigail:「I asked the nurses if my parents were dead , and they would n't tell me . Said I had to wait for you .」
Alana:「I 'm sorry you had to wait .」
Abigail:「I know they 're dead . Who buried them ?」
Alana:「They have n't been buried .」
Abigail:「Do n't you think they should be ?」
Alana:「Your mother was cremated per the instructions in her living will .」
Abigail:「( clears her throat ) My dad ?」
Alana:「Your father is more complicated .」
Abigail:「Because he was crazy ?」
Alana:「The nurses said you did n't remember .」
Abigail:「I remember . I just did n't want to talk to them about it . I want to sell the house . I guess it 's mine now . I can use the money for college , get an apartment . What are all those ?」
Alana:「I brought you some clothes . Thought a change might feel good . I guessed your size , so anything you do n't want , leave the tags on , I 'll bring it back . And I brought you some music too .」
Abigail:「Your music ?」

Alana:「If there is n't anything you like , I 've got a stack of iTunes gift cards . I I 've got a stack of gift cards . I do n't do well redeeming gift cards .」
Abigail:「Probably says something about you .」
Alana:「Probably does .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I got seven families waiting .」
Jack:「No , let me rephrase」
Alana:「You ca n't ask her right now , Jack . We have to create a safe place for her first or you wo n't get any answers .」
Jack:「I respect your sympathy for her , Dr. Bloom . I hope one day you 'll appreciate my lack of it .」
Alana:「You really think Abigail Hobbs helped her father kill those girls ?」
Jack:「I think it 's a possibility that needs to be ruled out . If Abigail did n't help her father , maybe she knows who did .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「How was she when you saw her ?」
Alana:「Surprisingly practical .」
Jack:「Suspiciously practical ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I would suggest you can be practical without being a murderer .」
Alana:「I think she 's hiding something .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「It may simply be her trauma .」
Alana:「Yeah , it could also be more . She has a penchant for manipulation . Withheld information to gain information . She demonstrated only enough emotions - to prove she had them .」
Jack:「You beginning to appreciate my lack of sympathy ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You said it may be more than trauma yet you question her involvement in the murders the father committed .」
Alana:「What I 'm questioning is her state of mind .」
Jack:「I want Will Graham to talk to her .」
Alana:「Jack ! Not yet !」
Jack:「You are not Will Graham 's psychiatrist , Dr. Bloom . Dr. Lecter is .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]

Will:「Garrett Jacob Hobbs the , uh , Minnesota shrike , abducted and murdered eight girls over an eight month period . Each of them had the same hair color , same eye color , same age , same height , same weight as his daughter Abigail . There was a ninth victim who also fit Abigail Hobbs 's profile , but Garrett Jacob Hobbs did n't murder her . The killer who did wanted us to know he was n't the Minnesota shrike . He was better than that . He is an intelligent psychopath . He is a sadist . He will never kill like this again . So how do we catch him ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Giving a lecture on Hobbs 's copycat ?」
Jack:「Well , we need whatever good minds we can get on this .」

Will:「This copycat is an avid reader of Freddie Lounds and tattlecrime.com . He had intimate knowledge of Garrett Jacob Hobbs 's murders , motives , patterns enough to recreate them and , arguably , elevate them to art . How intimately did he know Garrett Jacob Hobbs ? Did he appreciate him from afar or did he engage him ? Did he ingratiate himself into Hobbs 's life ? Did Hobbs know his copycat as he was known ? Before Garrett Jacob Hobbs murdered his wife and attempted to do the same to his daughter , he received an untraceable call . I believe the as - yet unidentified caller was our copycat killer .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「So you 're not a doctor , a nurse , or a psychiatrist .」
Freddie:「I 'm a journalist . I want to tell the truth . Your truth . Sometimes that involves some deception , but know this」
Abigail:「Sounds like something a liar would say .」
Freddie:「If you tell me what you know , I can help you fill in the blanks .」
Abigail:「How about you tell me what you know ?」
Freddie:「Your dad was the Minnesota shrike . Your mother was n't the first person your father killed . He killed eight girls . Eight girls that looked-」
Abigail:「Just like me .」
narration:Yes .
Abigail:「Why do they call him the shrike ?」
Freddie:「It 's a bird that impales its prey , harvests the organs to eat later . He was very sick .」
Abigail:「Does that mean I 'm sick too ?」
Freddie:「You 'll be fighting that perception . Perception is the most important thing in your life right now .」
Abigail:「I do n't care what anybody thinks .」
Freddie:「You 'd better start caring , Abigail . What you remember , what you tell everyone is going to define the rest of your life . Let me help you .」
Abigail:「How did they catch him ?」
Freddie:「A man named Will Graham . Works for the FBI but is n't FBI . He captures insane men because he can think like them . Because he is insane .」
Will:「Would you excuse us , please ? Special Agent Will Graham .」
Freddie:「By Special Agent he means not really an agent . He did n't get past the screening process . Too unstable .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I really must insist you leave the room .」

Freddie:「If you wanna talk .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Abigail , this is Dr. Lecter . Do you remember us ?」
Abigail:「I remember you . You killed my dad .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You 've been in bed for days , Abigail . Why do n't we have a walk ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「I 'm sorry we could n't save your mother . We did everything we could but she was already gone .」
Abigail:「I know . I saw him kill her . He was loving right up until the second he was n't . Kept telling me he was sorry , to just hold still . He was gon na make it all go away .」
Will:「There was plenty wrong with your father , Abigail , but there 's nothing wrong with you . You say he was loving . I believe it . That 's what you brought out in him .」
Abigail:「It 's not all I brought out in him . I 'm gon na be messed up . Are n't I ? I 'm worried about nightmares .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「We 'll help you with the nightmares .」

Will:「There 's no such thing as getting used to what you experienced . It bothers me a lot . I worry about nightmares too .」
Abigail:「So killing somebody , even if you have to do it , it feels that bad ?」
Will:「It 's the ugliest thing in the world .」
Abigail:「I wanna go home .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Freddie:「Special Agent Graham . I never formally introduced myself . I 'm Freddie Lounds .」
Will:「Are you trying to salvage this joke from the mouth of madness ?」
Freddie:「Please . Let me apologize for my behavior in there . It was sloppy and misguided - and hurtful .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Miss Lounds . Now is not the time .」
Freddie:「Look , you and I may have our own reasons for being here , but I also think we both genuinely care about what happens to Abigail Hobbs .」
Will:「You told her I was insane .」
Freddie:「I can undo that .」
Will:「You help Abigail see me as more than her father 's killer and I help you with online ad sales ?」
Freddie:「I can undo what I said . I can also make it a lot worse .」

Will:「Miss Lounds It 's not very smart to piss off a guy who thinks about killing people for a living .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「" It is n't very smart to piss off a guy who thinks about killing people for a living . " You know what else is n't very smart ? You were there with him . And you let those words come out of his mouth .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I trust Will to speak for himself .」
Jack:「Evidently you should n't .」
Alana:「I 'm just happy the story was n't about Abigail Hobbs .」
Jack:「Well , then it 's a victory . ( Sighing ) So , Abigail Hobbs wants to go home . Let 's take her home .」
Alana:「What Abigail wants and what she needs are different things . Taking her out of a controlled environment would be reckless .」
Jack:「You said she was practical .」
Will:「That could just mean she has a dissociative disorder .」
Alana:「You take her home , she may experience intense emotions , respond aggressively , or re - enact some aspect of the traumatic event without even realizing it .」
Jack:「Where do you weigh in on this , doctor ?」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Dr. Bloom is right . But there is a scenario where revisiting the trauma event could help Abigail heal and actually prevent denial .」
Jack:「Then we have a difference of opinion . Therefore , I am going to choose the opinion that best serves my agenda . I need to know if you 're right about the copycat , Will .」
Alana:「We have no way of knowing what 's waiting for her when she goes home .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Freddie:「Thanks again for meeting with me . I know this has n't been easy for you .」
Nicholas:「Oh yeah ? How would you know ?」
Freddie:「I 've been writing about Garrettt Jacob Hobbs . I 've spoken to the relatives of some of his other victims .」
Nicholas:「Hobbs is dead . He deserved a lot worse . Him and his whole family .」
Freddie:「There must be some small comfort knowing that justice was served .」
Nicholas:「Comfort ? My sister was impaled on a severed stag head , cut down the middle . He pulled out her lungs while she was still breathing . There 's no comfort in that .」
Freddie:「I 'm sorry . I am . But you have to try not to remember her that way .」

Nicholas:「What do you want from me ?」
Freddie:「I just thought you should know Abigail Hobbs came out of her coma .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「This is where my mom died ?」
Will:「Yes .」
Abigail:「I was sort of expecting a body outline in chalk or tape .」
Will:「They only do that if you 're still alive and taken to the hospital before they finish the crime scene .」
Abigail:「Goodbye , mom .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Alana:「If you ever wanna go , you just have to say so and we 'll go .」
Abigail:「Go where ? The hospital ? For now ? They turned all the pictures around .」
Alana:「Crime scene cleaners will do that .」
Abigail:「They did a really good job . Is that where all my blood was ?」
Will:「Yes .」
Abigail:「You do this a lot ? Go places and think about killing ?」
Will:「Too often .」
Abigail:「So you pretended to be my dad .」
Will:「And people like your dad .」
Abigail:「What did it feel like ? To be him ?」
Will:「It feels like I 'm talking to his shadow suspended on dust .」
Abigail:「No wonder you have nightmares .」
Will:「The attacks on you and your mother were different . They were desperate . Your dad knew he was out of time . Somebody told him we were coming .」
Abigail:「The man on the phone ?」
Will:「It was a blocked call . Did you recognize his voice ?」
Abigail:「I had never heard it before .」
Alana:「Was there anybody new in your father 's life ? Someone you met or someone he talked about ?」
Will:「Abigail , he may have been contacted by another killer . A copycat .」
Abigail:「Someone who 's still out there ?」
Will:「Yeah ...」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「Can you catch somebody 's crazy ?」
Alana:「Folie à deux .」
Abigail:「What ?」
Alana:「It 's a French psychiatric term . Madness shared by two .」
narration:Sound of heart beating
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「One can not be delusional if the belief in question is accepted as ordinary by others in that person 's culture or subculture . Or family .」

Abigail:「My dad did n't seem delusional . He was a perfectionist .」
Will:「Your dad left hardly any evidence .」
Abigail:「Is that why you let me come home ? To find evidence ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「It was one of many considerations .」
Abigail:「Are we gon na re - enact the crime ? You be my dad , you be my mom , and you be the man on the phone .」
Alana:「Abigail , we wanted you to come home to help you leave home behind .」
Abigail:「You 're not gon na find any of those girls , you know ?」
Will:「What makes you say that ?」
Abigail:「He would honor every part of them . He used to make plumbing putty out of elk 's bones . Whatever bones are left of those girls are probably holding pipes together .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Where did he make this putty ?」
Abigail:「At the cabin . I can show you tomorrow .」
Alana:「Abigail , there 's someone here .」
Marissa:「Hey , Abigail .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Marissa:「So , uh , does that hurt ?」
Abigail:「Sometimes .」

Marissa:「Everybody on the block was on the news . And everyone at school . Such whores .」
Abigail:「Did you talk to the news ?」
Marissa:「No . No ! My mom does n't want me talking to you , much less the news .」
Abigail:「Since when do you listen to her ?」
Marissa:「Well , clearly I do n't . I 'm talking to you right now . Everybody thinks you did it , you know ?」
Abigail:「So you think I did it ?」
Marissa:「I do n't think you 're the type . Then again , I did n't think your father was the murder - suicide type . Although I guess the hunting could have been a clue .」
Abigail:「Mine or his ?」
Marissa:「Both , now that you mention it . I do n't think you did it .」
narration:I do .
Marissa:「This is private property .」
Nicholas:「You were the bait , right ? That 's how it worked ? You lure them back to daddy for dinner ? How 'd you trap my sister ? Did you chat her up ?」
Marissa:「Hey ! Piss off !」
Nicholas:「Did you help your old man cut out my sister 's lungs while she was still using ... ( spitting )」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「He said he was somebody 's brother .」
Marissa 's Mom:「Marissa ! Come home .」
Marissa:「No !」
Marissa 's Mom:「Come home !」
Marissa:「Can you stop being such a bitch ? See you later .」
Abigail:「Bye .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「He 's gone . You 've never seen him before ?」
Abigail:「No .」
Will:「Let 's go back to hotel . We will go to the carbin tomorrow .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「We should report this , yes ?」

Will:「Yes .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「I 'm sorry , okay ? This will all stop .」
Abigail:「Please .」
Will:「I 'm gon na make it all go away .」
narration:Screaming
 Alarm beeping
Abigail:「He cleaned everything . He said he was afraid of germs , but I guess he was just afraid of getting caught .」
Will:「No one else ever came here with your dad except you .」
Abigail:「He made everything by himself . Glue , butter he sold the pelts on eBay or in town . He 'd make pillows . No parts went to waste . Otherwise it was murder . He was feeding them to us . Was n't he ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「It 's very likely .」
Abigail:「Before he cut my throat , he told me he killed those girls so he would n't have to kill me .」
Alana:「You 're not responsible for anything your father did , Abigail .」
Abigail:「If he would 've just killed me , none of those other girls would be dead .」
Alana:「We do n't know that . Your father-」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「I need ERT at the Hobbs cabin .」

Alana:「Abigail !」
narration:screaming
Abigail:「Marissa !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Do you think she knew the guy down by the stream ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Somebody 's brother .」
Will:「Not somebody . Abigail said he asked if she helped her dad take his sister 's lungs while she was alive .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「The young woman on the stag head .」
Will:「Cassie Boyle had a brother , Nicholas . But Garrett Jacob Hobbs did n't kill Cassie Boyle .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I know . Garrett Jacob Hobbs would 've honored every part of her .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「You brought Abigail Hobbs back to Minnesota to find out if she was involved in her father 's murders and another girl dies .」
Will:「Yep , scraped his knuckle on her teeth . There 's foreign tissue and what could be trace amounts of blood .」
Jack:「You said that this copycat was an intelligent psychopath , Will . That there would be no traceable motive , no pattern . He would n't kill again this way . You said it .」
Will:「I may have been wrong about that .」

Jack:「Yes , because Garrett Jacob Hobbs never struck his victims . Why would the copycat do it ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I think he was provoked . Nicholas Boyle murdered this girl and his own sister .」
Jack:「With or without Abigail Hobbs ?」
Will:「Without .」
Jack:「Well , do you think that Abigail Hobbs knew Nicholas or Cassie Boyle ?」
Will:「No .」
Jack:「You do n't think she knew them or do n't wanna think that she knew them ?」
Will:「She said she did n't know them .」
Jack:「( sighs ) Dr. Bloom says that Abigail has a penchant for , uh , manipulation . Is she manipulating you , Will ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Agent Crawford .」
Jack:「Look , he said he was wrong about the copycat killer . I want to know what else he 's wrong about .」
Will:「Whoever killed the girl on the field killed this girl , I 'm right about that . He knew exactly how to mount the body . Wound patterns are almost identical to Cassie Boyle . Same design , the same humiliation .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Abigail Hobbs is not a killer . But she could be the target of one .」

Jack:「I think it 's time that Abigail Hobbs left home permanently . Doctor , would you be good enough to collect Abigail and all of her belongings and escort her out of Minnesota , please ? Not you , Will . I want you here .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Journalists:「Abigail ! Abigail !」
Marissa 's Mon:「You killed my daughter !」
Alana:「Abigail ! Abigail !」
Marissa 's Mom:「Why come back here ? Why did you come back here ? Why come back ?」
Alana:「Stay here . Stay here .」
narration:Woman sobbing
Freddie:「Abigail !」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Miss Lounds . You 're on the wrong side of the police line .」
Freddie:「I 've been covering the Minnesota shrike long before you got involved . I wanna help you tell your story . You need me now more than ever .」
Abigail:「I wanna talk to her .」
Alana:「No you do n't . Go inside .」
Freddie:「I 'm not the only one lurking about the Hobbs house peeking in windows . You really should monitor those police lines more carefully .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Have you seen a young man , mid-20s , ginger hair ? Unwashed .」
Freddie:「I 'll tell you if I saw him if you tell me why it 's important .」
narration:Sobbing softly
Hobbs:「None of her is gon na go to waste .」
narration:Whimpering
Nicholas:「I just want you to listen to me . I did n't kill that girl , okay ? I did n't kill her ! Wait ! Listen ! I did n't !」
Alana:「Abigail ? Abigail ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「She 'll be all right . Abigail ? Show me what happened .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Abigail:「He was gon na kill me .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Was he ? This is n't self - defense , Abigail . You butchered him .」
Abigail:「I did n't .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「They will see what you did and they 'll see you as an accessory to the crimes of your father .」
Abigail:「I was n't .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I can help you , if you ask me to . At great risk to my career and my life . You have a choice . You can tell them you were defending yourself when you gutted this man Or we can hide the body .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Alana:「No I do n't remember anything . Maybe a blur out of the corner of my eye and and then a big fat cut to black .」
Jack:「Well , Nicholas Boyle attacked Abigail , you . Struck Dr. Lecter in the back of the head .」
Alana:「Well , where 's Abigail ?」
Will:「Lecter took her back to the hotel .」
Jack:「She scratched Nicholas Boyle on his way out the back door . The blood on her hands matches the tissue that we pulled from Marissa Schurr 's mouth .」
Alana:「And then what , he he got away ?」
Jack:「We 'll catch him one way or another . Where you going ?」
Will:「I wanna go home .」
narration:Creaking sound
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Hello , Abigail .」
Abigail:「How did you know it was me ?」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Hospital called . You climbed over the wall . Where else were you to go ? Home 's no longer an option . Come down from there .」
Abigail:「I do n't want to go to sleep .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You ca n't anticipate your dreams . Ca n't block them , ca n't repress .」
Abigail:「I did n't honor any part of him so it 's just murder , is n't it ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Most would argue self - defense .」
Abigail:「Then why not tell the truth ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Most would argue . There would still be those who would say you were taking after your father .」
Abigail:「You 're glad I killed him .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What would be the alternative ? That he killed you ?」
Abigail:「I did n't know if he was going to .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「No , you do n't .」
Abigail:「You 're the one who called the house . You talked to my dad before what did you say to him ?」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「A simple conversation , ascertaining if he was home for an interview . Then why not tell the truth ?」
Abigail:「I think you called the house as a serial killer . Just like my dad .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm nothing like your dad . I made a mistake . Something easily misconstrued . Not unlike yourself .I 'll keep your secret .」
Abigail:「And I 'll keep yours .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「No more climbing walls , Abigail .」

narration:[PREVIOUSLY_ON]
 You make jumps you ca n't explain , Will . The evidence explains . Then help me find some evidence . I would n't put him out there ! Should he get too close , I need you to make sure he 's not out there alone . I do n't think the Shrike killed that girl in the field . This girl 's killer thought that she was a pig . You think this was a copycat ? I think I can help good Will , see his face . Hello ? They know .
 gunshots
 You said he would n't get too close . See ?
 gunshots
 knocking
Jack:「We 're here !」
narration:police radio chatter
Will:「Could be a permanent installation in your Evil Minds Museum .」
Jack:「Well , what we learn about Garrett Jacob Hobbs will help us catch the next one like him . There 's still seven bodies unaccounted for .」
Will:「Yeah , well , he was eating them .」
Jack:「Had to be some parts he was n't eating .」
Will:「Not necessarily .」
Jack:「All right , what if Hobbs was n't eating alone ? It 's a lot of work . Disappearing these girls , butchering them , and then not leaving a shred of anything other than what 's in this room .」
Will:「Someone he hunted with .」
Jack:「Someone who is in a coma , who also happened to be someone he hunted with .」
Will:「Abigail Hobbs is a suspect ?」
Jack:「We 've been conducting house - to - house interviews at the Hobbs residence , and , uh , at this property also . Hobbs spent a lot of time here . Spent a lot of time with his daughter here . She would make the ideal bait , would n't she ?」
Will:「Hobbs killed alone . Ah ... someone else was here .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Applause
Will:「Thank you . Please stop that . This is how I caught Garrett Jacob Hobbs . It 's his resignation letter . Does anybody see the clue ? There is n't one . He wrote a letter , he left a phone number , no address . That 's it . Bad bookkeeping and dumb luck . ( gasping ) Garrett Jacob Hobbs is dead . The question now is how to stop those his story is going to inspire . ( projector click ) He 's already got one admirer . A copycat .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Hi .」
Alana:「How are you , Will ?」
Will:「Uh , I have no idea .」
Alana:「Um , I did n't want you to be ambushed .」
Will:「This is an ambush ?」
Alana:「Ambush is later . Immediately later soon to now . When Jack arrives , consider yourself ambushed .」
Will:「Here 's Jack .」
Jack:「How was class ?」
Will:「Um , they applauded . It was inappropriate .」

Jack:「Well , the review board would beg to differ . You 're up for a commendation . And they 've , uh , okayed active return to the field .」
Alana:「The question is , do you want to go back to the field ?」
Jack:「I want him back in the field . And I 've told the board I 'm recommending a psych eval .」
Will:「Are we starting now ?」
Alana:「Oh , the session would n't be with me .」
Jack:「Hannibal Lecter 's a better fit . Your relationship 's not personal . But if you are more comfortable with Dr. Bloom-」
Will:「No , I 'm not going to be comfortable with anybody inside my head .」
Alana:「You 've never killed anyone before , Will . It 's a deadly force encounter . It 's a lot to digest .」
Will:「I used to work Homicide .」
Jack:「The reason you currently used to work Homicide is because you did n't have the stomach for pulling the trigger . You just pulled the trigger ten times !」
Will:「Wait , so a psych eval is n't a formality ?」
Jack:「No , it 's so I can get some sleep at night . I asked you to get close to the Hobbs thing . I need to know you did n't get too close . How many nights did you spend in Abigail Hobbs ' hospital room , Will ?」
Will:「Therapy does n't work on me .」
Jack:「Therapy does n't work on you because you wo n't let it .」
Will:「And because I know all the tricks .」
Jack:「Well , perhaps you need to un - learn some tricks .」
Alana:「Why not have a conversation with Hannibal ? He was there . He knows what you went through .」
Jack:「Come on , Will . I need my beauty sleep !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「What 's that ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Your psychological evaluation . You are totally functional and more or less sane . Well done .」

Will:「Did you just rubber stamp me ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes . Jack Crawford may lay his weary head to rest knowing he did n't break you and our conversation can proceed unobstructed by paperwork .」
Will:「Jack thinks that I need therapy .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What you need is a way out of dark places when Jack sends you there .」
Will:「Last time he sent me into a dark place , I brought something back .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「A surrogate daughter ? You saved Abigail Hobbs ' life . You also orphaned her . That comes with certain emotional obligations , regardless of empathy disorders .」
Will:「You were there . You saved her life too . Do you feel obligated ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yes . I feel a staggering amount of obligation . I feel responsibility . I 've fantasized about scenarios where my actions may have allowed a different fate for Abigail Hobbs .」
Will:「Jack thinks Abigail Hobbs helped her dad kill those girls .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「How does that make you feel ?」
Will:「How does it make you feel ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I find it vulgar .」
Will:「Me too .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「And entirely possible .」
Will:「It 's not what happened .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Jack will ask her when she wakes up , or he 'll have one of us ask her .」
Will:「Is this therapy , or a support group ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「It 's whatever you need it to be . And , Will , the mirrors in your mind can reflect the best of yourself , not the worst of someone else .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Boy1:「What is that ?」
Boy2:「I bet it 's marijuana .」
Boy3:「Mushrooms . Look , they got tubes to water 'em or something .」
Boy2:「No , it 's a marijuana plant .」
Boy1:「That 's not marijuana .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Beverly:「I 'm pretty sure firearm accuracy is n't a prerequisite for teaching .」
Will:「Well , I 've been in the field before .」
Beverly:「Now you 're back in the saddle . Ish .」
Will:「Ish indeed . Took me 10 shots to drop Hobbs .」

Beverly:「Zeller wanted to give you the bullets he pulled out of Hobbs in an acrylic case , but I told him you would n't think it was funny .」
Will:「Probably not .」
Beverly:「I suggested one of those clackin ' swingin ' ball things .」
Will:「That would 've been funny .」
Beverly:「You 're a Weaver . I took you for an isosceles guy .」
Will:「I have a rotator cuff issue so I have to use the Weaver stance .」
Beverly:「You are tight .」
Will:「I got stabbed when I was a cop .」
Beverly:「Yeah , I got stabbed in the third grade with a number two pencil . Thought I was gon na get lead poisoning .」
Will:「Uh , no lead in pencils ; It 's graphite .」
Beverly:「See if that helps with the recoil .」
Will:「That was better . You come all the way down here to teach me how to shoot ?」
Beverly:「No . Jack sent me down here to find out what you know about gardening .」
narration:crow cawing
Jack:「So , Lecter gave you the all - clear . Therapy might work on you after all .」
Will:「Therapy is an acquired taste which I have yet to acquire . But , uh , it served your purpose . I 'm back in the field .」
Jack:「Local police found tire tracks on a hidden service road and some small animal traps in the surrounding area .」
Will:「He wanted to keep his crop undisturbed .」
Jack:「The only thing missing is the scarecrow .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jimmy:「OK , we 've got nine bodies , various stages of decay , and as you can see , all very well fertilized .」
Beverly:「He buried them in a high - nutrient compost . He was enthusiastically encouraging decomposition .」
Brian:「They were buried alive with the intention of keeping them that way . I mean , for a little while .」
Jimmy:「: Long enough for the fungus to eat away any distinguishing characteristics .」
Brian:「Line and rebar were used to administer intravenous fluids after they were buried . He was feeding them something .」
Will:「No restraints ?」
Jimmy:「Just dirt .」
Beverly:「The other end of the air - supply system comes up over there .」
narration:It is n't a very considerate clean air solution , which clearly was n't a priority , 'cause he is n't lazy .
Will:「No , he 's not .」
Beverly:「You find any shitakes ?」
Brian:「: No .」
Jack:「Welcome back .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Detective:「Tell Sam to give me a call , will you ? Thank you . Excuse me .」
Freddie:「I 'm one of the parents of the explorers who found the bodies . I wanted to thank you for being so good with all the boys .」

Detective:「Those boys were very brave .」
Freddie:「They are good boys .」
Detective:「Yeah .」
Freddie:「You 're a local police detective ?」
Detective:「Yes ma'am .」
Freddie:「Would it be an imposition to ask a few things ? The boys are gon na have questions and I just want to be as honest with them as-」
Detective:「Of course .」
Freddie:「Can you , uh , tell me what that man is doing over there by himself ?」
Detective:「He 's some kind of special consultant . Works for the FBI .」
Freddie:「Huh .」
narration:sound muted
 soft ambient pulse
 Sound returns .
Will:「I do not bind his arms or legs as I bury him in a shallow grave . ( ventilator pumping ) He 's alive . But he will never be conscious again . He wo n't know that he 's dying . I do n't need him to . This is my design .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Detective:「I think your family 's leaving .」
Freddie:「We drove separately .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 muffled gasp
 Will gasping
Will:「I need an EMT !」
narration:person gasping
Katz:「EMT ! We need an EMT !」
Officer Zeller:「Do n't touch him !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「This may have been premature .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What did you see ? Out in the field .」

Will:「Hobbs .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「An association ?」
Will:「A hallucination . I saw him lying there in someone else 's grave .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Did you tell Jack what you saw ?」
Will:「No !」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「It 's stress . Not worth reporting . You displaced the victim of another killer 's crime with what could arguably be considered your victim .」
Will:「I do n't consider Hobbs my victim .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「What do you consider him ?」
Will:「Dead ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Is it harder imagining the thrill somebody else feels killing , now that you 've done it yourself ? The arms .」
narration:Why did he leave them exposed ? To hold their hands ? To feel the life leaving their bodies ?
Will:「No , that 's too esoteric for someone who took the time to bury his victims in a straight line . He 's more practical .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「He was cultivating them .」
Will:「He was keeping them alive . He was feeding them intravenously .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「But your farmer let his crops die . Save for the one that did n't .」

Will:「Well , and the one that did n't died on the way to the hospital , though they were n't crops ; They were the fertilizer . The bodies were covered in fungus .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「The structure of a fungus mirrors that of the human brain an intricate web of connections .」
Will:「So maybe he admires their ability to connect the way human minds ca n't .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Yours can .」
Will:「( laughs ) Yep . Um yeah , not physically .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Is that what your farmer is looking for ? Some sort of connection ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Have a good evening , Will .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Miss Kimball ?」
Freddie:「Yes .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Good evening . Please come in .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Freddie:「I 've , uh , never seen a psychiatrist before . And I am unfortunately thorough , so you 're one of three doctors I 'm interviewing . It 's more or less a bake - off .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm very supportive of bake - offs . It 's important you find someone you 're comfortable with .」
Freddie:「I can imagine you as my therapist , which is good . If I ca n't visualize opening up emotionally , I know it would be a problem .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「May I ask why now ?」
Freddie:「Do you mind if I ask you a few questions first ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Of course not .」
Freddie:「I love that you 've written so much on social exclusion . Since that 's why I 'm here , I was wondering-」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Are you Freddie Lounds ?」
Freddie:「Ah ...」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「This is unethical , even for a tabloid journalist .」
Freddie:「I am , uh , I am so embarrassed .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm afraid I must ask for your bag .」
Freddie:「What ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Your bag . Please hand it over . I 'd rather not take it from you . Thank you .」
Freddie:「I was recording our conversation .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Our conversation ? Yours and mine ?」

Freddie:「Yes .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「No other conversation ?」
Freddie:「No .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You were very persistent about your appointment time . How did you know when Will Graham would be here ?」
Freddie:「I may have also recorded your session with Will Graham .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You did n't answer the question . How did you know ?」
Freddie:「I ca n't answer that question .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Come . Sit by me . Delete the conversations you recorded . Doctor - patient confidentiality works both ways . Delete it , please . You 've been terribly rude , Miss Lounds . What 's to be done about that ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
[ ♪ J.S. Bach:「Cello Suite No.4」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Loin , served with a Cumberland sauce of red fruits .」
Jack:「Um , loin . What kind ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Pork .」
Jack:「Wonderful . I do n't get many opportunities to , uh , eat home - cooked meals . My wife and I both work , and , uh , as hard as I tried not to , I did wind up marrying my mother .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Your mother did n't cook ?」
Jack:「She did , she did . I only wish she did n't . There was this meal she used to prepare . She liked to call it " oriental noodles " . Spaghetti , soy sauce , bouillon cubes , and spam . I was raised thin as a youngster .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Well , next time , bring your wife . I 'd love to have you both for dinner .」
Jack:「Thank you . Mmm . Lovely . So , why do you think Will Graham ... came back to see you ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I 'm sure he recognizes the necessity of his own support structure if he is to go on supporting you in the field .」
Jack:「Well , I believe that a guy like Will Graham knows exactly what 's going on inside of his head , which is why he does n't want anyone else up there .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Are you not accustomed to broken ponies in your stable ?」
Jack:「You think Will Graham 's a broken pony ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I think you think Will is a broken pony . Have you ever lost a pony , Jack ?」

Jack:「If you 're asking me whether or not I 've ever lost someone in the field , the answer is yes . Why ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I want to understand why you 're so delicate with Will . Because you do n't trust him , or because you 're afraid of losing another pony ?」
Jack:「I 've already had my psych eval .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Not by me . You 've already told me about your mother . Why stop there ?」
Jack:「( laughing ) Oh , great . All right . Mmm ...」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「What were they soaked in ?」
Jimmy:「A highly concentrated mixture of hardwoods , shredded newspaper , and pig poop perfect for growing mushrooms and other fungi .」
Brian:「It was not the mushrooms , though . They all died of kidney failure .」
Beverly:「Dextrose in all the catheters . He probably used some kind of dialysis or peristaltic to pump fluids after their circulatory systems broke down .」
Will:「Force - feeding them sugar water ?」
Jimmy:「You know who loves sugar water ? Mushrooms .」
narration:They crave it .
Brain:「Recovering alcoholics . They crave sugar . Uh , do n't take that personally , buddy .」

Jimmy:「Oh , I 'm not recovering .」
Brain:「Feed sugar to the fungus in your body , the fungus creates alcohol , so it 's like friends helping friends , really .」
Will:「It 's not just alcoholics who have compromised endocrine systems . They all died of kidney failure ? Death by diabetic ketoacidosis .」
Beverly:「Did you know they were diabetics ?」
Brain:「We do n't know they were diabetics .」
Will:「No , they 're all diabetics . He induces a coma and puts them in the ground .」
Beverly:「How is he inducing diabetic comas ?」
Will:「Changes their medication . So he 's a doctor or a pharmacist or he works somewhere in medical services .」
Beverly:「He buries them , feeds them sugar to keep them alive long enough for the circulatory systems to soak it up .」
Jimmy:「So he can feed the mushrooms !」
Brian:「We dug up his mushroom garden .」
Will:「Yeah , he 's gon na want to grow a new one .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Ms. Speck:「I 'm picking up a prescription for Gretchen Speck .」
Eldon:「Gretchen Speck ( typing ) - Horowitz .」
Ms. Speck:「Oh , it 's just Speck . We 're divorced . I lost the hyphen , kept the ring .」
Eldon:「Insulin .」
Ms. Speck:「Yes .」
Eldon:「Oh . Oh , it 's the wrong one . Just-」
Ms Speck:「Uh - oh .」
Eldon:「No , no , it 's OK . Just gon na be one second . There . There you go . Oh , could you sign here please ? And that 's your correct address ?」
Ms Speck:「Yeah . Thank you .」
Eldon:「Thank you .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Eldon:「Mrs. James . If you could sign here , please ? Thank you .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jack:「She 's the chain 's 10th diabetic customer to disappear after filling a prescription for insulin , second to disappear from this exact location .」
Will:「And the other eight ?」
Jack:「All over the county . One pharmacist all over the county as well .」
Will:「Floater , huh ?」
Jack:「Floater 's floating right here . Still logged in at his work station . Everyone please stop what you are doing . Put your hands in the air ! Special Agent Jack Crawford . Which one of you is Eldon Stammets ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 : Eldon was just here . Just now .
Will:「Is his car still in the parking lot ?」
Jack:「His car !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Will:「Give me your baton . Ugh ! ( ventilator pumping ) She 's alive !」

Jack:「EMTs ! Now ! All right . We know his name , we have his address , we have his car .」
Jimmy:「Jack . We just checked the browser history at Stammets ' work station .」
Jack:「Am I gon na wanna hear this ?」
Jimmy:「No . And yes , but mostly no .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Brian:「Freddie Lounds . TattleCrime.com .」
Beverly:「" The FBI is n't just hunting psychopaths , they 're headhunting them " too , offering competitive pay and benefits in the hopes of using one demented mind- "」
Jack:「Keep going .」
Beverly:「It 's about Will .」
Jack:「Go on .」
Beverly:「" One demented mind to catch " She goes into a lot of detail .」
Jack:「Son of a bitch .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You are naughty , Miss Lounds .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 knocking on door
Freddie:「Who is it ?」
narration:knocking on door
 Who is it ? Ah !
Brian:「: All clear .」

Freddie:「I appreciate the pageantry , Agent Crawford , but you ca n't arrest me for writing an article .」
Jack:「You entered a federal crime scene without permission .」
Freddie:「Escorted by a detective .」
Jack:「Under false pretence !」
Freddie:「It is as good as permission .」
Jack:「You lied to a police officer .」
Freddie:「You ca n't arrest me for lying .」
Jack:「You got all that information from a local detective ?」
Friddie:「Lots of talk about your man Graham . Not to mention the rivalry of who gets the collar . A local police detective looking for a pissing contest with the FBI might have some insight .」
Jack:「And evidently did .」
Friddie:「Sure did .」
Jack:「You know , the unfortunate timing of your article allowed a murderer to escape . You were in Minnesota . You were in the Shrike 's nest . You know how I know ? 'Cause you left one of these hairs behind . You contaminated the crime scene . Just like everywhere you go , you contaminate crime scenes . That 's obstructing justice . I can indict you for obstructing justice .」
Friddie:「I 'd appreciate it if you did n't .」
Jack:「You do n't write another word about Will Graham and I wo n't have to .」
Brian:「You used me .」
narration:monitor beeping
 ventilator pumping
 footsteps
Alana:「" He and the Grandmother discussed better times . " , The old lady said that " in her opinion , Europe was entirely to blame for the way things were now . She said "」
Will:「What are you reading ?」
Alana:「Flannery O'Connor . When I was Abigail 's age , I was obsessed . I even tried to raise peacocks because she raised peacocks . But they were really stupid birds .」
Will:「You could be reading to a killer .」
Alana:「Innocent until guilty and all that . I 'm about to broach the subject of that " Takes One to Know One " article .」
Will:「Oh , that . Did Jack send you ?」
Alana:「No , I sent me .」
Will:「I do n't think we 've ever been alone in a room together , have we ?」
Alana:「I have n't noticed . Have we ? Not that we 're necessarily alone now .」
Will:「Yeah , right . Back to " Jack Crawford 's crime gimp " .」
Alana:「It certainly creates an image . I do n't need to talk about it if you do n't .」
Will:「No , no , we can talk about or not talk about whatever you want . Actually , I was I was just enjoying listening to you read .」
Alana:「Abigail Hobbs is a success for you .」
Will:「She does n't look like a success .」
Alana:「Do n't feel sorry for yourself because you saved this girl 's life .」

Will:「I do n't . I do n't feel sorry for myself at all . I feel , um I - I I feel , um good .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Detective:「Do n't know where you got half that information . It was n't from me .」
Freddie:「I may have made some inferences .」
Detective:「They think I told you all of it .」
Freddie:「They saw you talking to me .」
Detective:「They think it 's my fault Stammets escaped .」
Freddie:「I 'm sorry I got you fired .」
Detective:「I was n't fired . I was suspended .」
Freddie:「They 're gon na fire you . Jack Crawford will make sure of that .」
Detective:「You- You stir the hornet 's nest , and I 'm the one who gets stung ?」
Freddie:「I can help you get work outside the force , if you want me to . I know people in private security .」
Detective:「Not the first cop you got fired .」
Freddie:「Guarantee you it pays better . Right now , future you is thanking me-」
Eldon:「I read your article . Tell me about Will Graham .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Freddie:「Hey , Jack .」
Jack:「Miss Lounds ? Go ahead and stand down , officer . Miss Lounds , are you all right ?」
Freddie:「Where 's Will Graham ?」
Jack:「We have an eyewitness to the murder . We do n't need Will Graham .」
Freddie:「No , that 's not why I 'm asking .」
Jack:「Someone find me Will Graham ! This is about Will ? Freddie
 Stammets ?」
Freddie:「Thoughts leaping from brain to brain . They mutate , they evolve .」
Jack:「Well , what does he want with Will Graham ?」
Freddie:「Someone who understands him . Graham was right . Stammets is looking for connections .」
Jack:「What did you tell him ? I need to know what you told Eldon Stammets about Will Graham .」
Freddie:「I told him about the Hobbs girl .」
Jack:「What did you tell him ?」
Freddie:「Everything . He wants to help Will Graham connect with Abigail Hobbs . He 's gon na bury her .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 ding !
Will:「Sorry .」
narration:ding !
 phone ringing
 Hello ? - [ lt 's Jack . ] [ Are you at the hospital ? ] Yes , I am . [ Stammets knows about Abigail Hobbs . ] Where is she ? Abigail Hobbs , the girl in 408 . Where is she ?
Nurse:「They took her for tests .」
Will:「Who took her ? Who took her ? !」
Nurse:「I do n't know !」
Will:「Hey ! ( grunting in pain ) What were you gon na do to her ?」

Eldon:「We all evolved from mycelium . I 'm simply reintroducing her to the concept .」
Will:「By burying her alive ?」
Eldon:「The journalist said you understood me !」
Will:「I do n't .」
Eldon:「Well , you would have . You would have . If you walk through a field of mycelium , they know you are there . They know you are there . The spores reach for you as you walk by . I know who you 're reaching for . I know . Abigail Hobbs . And you should have let me plant her . You would have found her in a field , where she was finally able to reach back !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「When you shot Eldon Stammets , who was it that you saw ?」
Will:「I did n't see Hobbs .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Then it 's not Hobbs ' ghost that 's haunting you , is it ? It 's the inevitability of there being a man so bad that killing him felt good .」
Will:「Killing Hobbs felt just .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Which is why you 're here to prove that sprig of zest you feel is from saving Abigail , not from killing her dad .」
Will:「I did n't feel a sprig of zest when I shot Eldon Stammets .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「You did n't kill Eldon Stammets .」
Will:「I thought about it . I 'm still not entirely sure that was n't my intention pulling the trigger .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「If your intention was to kill him , it 's because you understand why he did the things he did . It 's beautiful in its own way giving voice to the unmentionable .」
Will:「I should 've stuck to fixing boat motors in Louisiana .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「A boat engine is a machine , a predictable problem , easy to solve . You fail , there 's a paddle . Where was your paddle with Hobbs ?」
Will:「You 're supposed to be my paddle .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「I am . It was n't the act of killing Hobbs that got you down , was it ? Did you really feel so bad because killing him felt so good ?」
Will:「I liked killing Hobbs .」

Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「Killing must feel good to God too . He does it all the time . And are we not created in his image ?」
Will:「That depends who you ask .」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「God 's terrific . He dropped a church roof on 34 of his worshippers last Wednesday night in Texas , while they sang a hymn .」
Will:「And did God feel good about that ?」
Dr. Hannibal Lecter:「He felt powerful .」
