narrator:INT. JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, KITCHEN -- NIGHT
 The refrigerator door is open. A male forensic uses tongs to remove Zero's severed hand from behind soda cans and mayonnaise.
 INT. JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, ROOM ONE -- NIGHT
 The forensic walks through with the hand in a clear plastic bag, past a FEMALE SKETCH ARTIST who puts the finishing touches on a fairly accurate drawing of the balding John Doe.
 SKETCH ARTIST This is the guy?
 Mills stands over the artist. Sarah, Billy and two deputy detectives are at work in the room, photographing, searching.
MILLS:「Make sure it gets around.」
narrator:SKETCH ARTIST You got it. Tomorrow morning, this city's good citizens will be on the lookout for Elmer Fudd.
 SARAH (to Mills) We can't find anything to hang onto. No pay-stubs, no appointment books or calendars. Not even a book of phone numbers. And, you're not going to believe this...
MILLS:「Keep looking.」
narrator:SARA It's just... we haven't found any fingerprints yet. Not one.
MILLS:「You know, you're right. I don't believe it. Keep looking.」
narrator:INT. JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, ROOM TWO -- NIGHT
 Somerset reads one of Doe's notebooks. Three cops are looking through other notebooks from the shelves. Mills enters.
SOMERSET:「We need to put more men on this.」
MILLS:「I'm working on it, alright. What have we got.」
narrator:Somerset bristles slightly at Mills' abrupt demeanor.
SOMERSET:「We've got about five thousand notebooks in this room. And, as near as I can tell, each notebook contains two hundred and fifty pages.」
MILLS:「Then, he must write about the murders.」
narrator:Somerset looks at the notebook, reads.
SOMERSET:「What sick, silly puppets we are, and what a gross stage we dance on. What fun we have, dancing around, not a care in the world. Not knowing that we are nothing. We are not what God intended." (turns pages) "On the subway today, a man came up to start a conversation. He was making small talk, this lonely man, talking about the weather and other things. I tried to be accommodating, but my head began to hurt from his banality. I almost didn't notice it had happened, but I threw up all over him. And I couldn't stop myself from laughing." (closes book) No dates indicated. They're placed on the shelves in no discernible order. He describes a scab on his arm for five pages, then writes about existential philosophy on the next.」
narrator:Mills walks. He looks into the adjoining paint room.
SOMERSET:「CONT) It's just his mind poured out on paper.」
narrator:Mills leans in the doorway, looking at Doe's strange artworks.
MILLS:「You were right. He is preaching.」

narrator:The PHONE RINGS in the other room.
 INT. JOHN DOE'S APARTMENT, MAIN ROOM -- NIGHT
 All attention is focused on the phone on Doe's desk. A tape recorder is rigged to the receiver. Mills and Somerset enter. Mills walks over, pushes a button on the recorder, picks up.
MILLS:「into phone) Hello... hello?」
John Doe:「V.O.) (from recorder) I admire you, David. Imagine my surprise on finding you at my doorstep. I admire you more and more every day.」

MILLS:「into phone) Okay, John. Let's...」
John Doe:「V.O.) (from recorder) No, no, no! You listen and don't talk. I suppose you found the painting and the photos. This is just as well. Now we all know we've all seen each other. (pause) I mean what I say. I do admire you.」
narrator:Long pause. Mills waits.
John Doe:「V.O.,CONT) Oh, there is one other thing. Fourteen hundred thirty. West Eighty-sixth street. Apartment six-o-four.」

narrator:EXT. CITY STREET -- DAY
 Mills and Somerset walk towards the precinct house. They wade through cars to cross the street.
SOMERSET:「I've decided... I want to stay on, till this is over. Till either it's done, or we can see it will never end.」
narrator:Mills remains impassive.
MILLS:「Oh, you want to stay now?」
SOMERSET:「One of two things is going to happen. We're either going to get John Doe... or, he will finish his series of seven, and he'll never be found.」
MILLS:「You think if you stay you're doing me some big favor?」
SOMERSET:「I'm requesting you keep me on as your partner a few more days. You'd be doing me the favor.」
MILLS:「You knew I'd say yes.」
SOMERSET:「No. I wasn't sure at all.」
narrator:They enter the precinct house. Down the sidewalk, from a distance, comes John Doe. His brown workboots and clothing are splattered with blood.
 He walks towards the precinct house, hands in his pockets, like he's merely out for a walk on a Sunday afternoon. People on the sidewalk stop upon seeing him, avoiding him.
 INT. PRECINCT HOUSE, RECEIVING LOBBY/BOOKING -- DAY
 Mills and Somerset walk past booking cubicles and benches of handcuffed low-lifes. The place is swimming with activity.
 The two detectives head to a duty desk at the end of the room.
SOMERSET:「As soon as this is over, I'll be gone.」
MILLS:「What a great big surprise that is.」
narrator:They pass through a gate and Somerset goes to the staircase leading to the second floor. Mills stops at the duty desk. Other cops are fighting for the DUTY SERGEANT'S attention.
MILLS:「CONT) Mills and Somerset are on the premises.」
narrator:SERGEANT Wonder-fucking-ful.
 Mills stops, looks. Somerset stops, looks back down the stairs.
 John Doe stands inside the precinct house doors. He holds out his arms as if to say "presto, here I am."
 Near silence comes to the room as all eyes go to the figure of John Doe.
 Mills is riveted, finding this impossible to comprehend.
 One UNIFORMED COP takes out his gun, points it at John Doe.
 UNIFORMED COP It's him!
 Several other cops drop what they're doing and draw weapons. Mills, still off-balance, walks back through the gate, takes his gun out and points it at Doe.
MILLS:「Get down on the floor.」
narrator:Somerset comes back down the stairs.
SOMERSET:「Be careful!」
narrator:Cops move slowly in on Doe from all sides.
 ANOTHER COP You heard him! Get on the floor!
 John Doe gets on his knees, hands up. Mills moves close, but not too. ONE COP comes from behind, nudges Doe with his foot.
 ONE COP Spread your legs and get your hands out in front of you.
MILLS:「Get down! Face down!」

narrator:John Doe gets on his stomach, obeys. Mills comes right up to Doe, steps on his neck, puts his gun against Doe's head.
MILLS:「CONT) Don't move. Don't move a fucking inch.」
narrator:Cops frisk and handcuff Doe. Somerset comes beside Mills.
SOMERSET:「I don't believe it.」
John Doe:「Hello, Lieutenant Somerset.」
narrator:COP What the hell is this?
 The cop putting the handcuffs on Doe holds up Doe's hands. Doe winces. Every single one of Doe's fingers has a bandage wrapped around it. John Doe looks up, his face pressed against the floor, glasses askew, Mills' gun at his temple.
John Doe:「I want to speak with my lawyer.」

narrator:INT. CITY STREET, IN FRONT OF PRECINCT HOUSE -- LATE AFTERNOON
 The street is full of shadows as the sun is falling low. On the steps of the precinct house, a throng of reporters shifts anxiously. A line of policemen holds them back. The precinct doors open. Martin Talbot arrives, escorted by cops. The press swarm lurches forward, flashbulbs explode.
 Talbot holds out his hands, quieting them, about to speak.
 EXT. CITY STREET, AT BACK OF PRECINCT HOUSE -- LATE AFTERNOON
 Mills' car pulls out of the fenced parking lot. John Doe is seated in the rear.
 The car speeds up on the street, turns onto an avenue, heading into a canyon formed by tall buildings. At the corner, a car is parked.
 Somerset is at the wheel. He pulls out, follows Mills' car.
 EXT. SKYSCRAPER ROOFTOP -- LATE AFTERNOON
 California is dressed in full battle gear. He looks through binoculars at the city below. The wind blows hard.
 He turns and runs to a sleek helicopter on the roof's heli-pad, climbs in the side door. The PILOT leans back from the cockpit to hand him a helmet. California dons it, starts strapping himself in so he can lean out the open door.
CALIFORNIA:「Is this wind going to hurt us?」
narrator:The pilot cranks the helicopter's whining engine and the blades start to spin, churning the air.
 PILOT Just makes the ride a little more fun.
 California hefts a high-powered automatic rifle as the chopper lifts from the pad and takes off.
 INT. MILLS' CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON
 Mills drives, looking to the back seat through the rearview mirror. A steel mesh partition separates front from back.
 John Doe sits with his hands cuffed. He is dressed in gray pants and a gray shirt. His feet are cuffed to a metal fastener on the floor of the car. Rivulets of sweat pour down his face. He seems wired.
MILLS:「What's your story, Johnny? Who are you, really?」
narrator:Doe pushes his glasses back up the bridge of his nose, looks at Mills' eyes in the rearview mirror.
John Doe:「It doesn't matter who I am. Who I am means absolutely nothing.」

narrator:INT. SOMERSET'S CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON
 Somerset adjusts the volume on a radio receiver mounted on the dash. He watches the road ahead, tailing Mills.
MILLS:「V.O.) (from receiver) What's your deal? You seem pretty fucking nervous.」
John Doe:「V.O.) (from receiver) I want this to go well. It's very important to me, obviously.」
narrator:INT. POLICE HELICOPTER -- LATE AFTERNOON
 The chopper hovers amongst skyscrapers. California and the pilot are listening, through their helmet headsets.
MILLS:「V.O.) (from headset) You want this to go well? What is this?」
John Doe:「V.O.) (from headset) Turn right on this street. Stay in the left lane.」
narrator:California leans out the chopper door, using his binoculars.
 EXT. CITY STREET -- LATE AFTERNOON
 Mills' car weaves through traffic.
 Somerset's car isn't far behind, goes through a red light, barely missing a truck. Other cars blow their horns.
 INT. SOMERSET'S CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON
 A cellular phone on the passenger side is BEEPING. Somerset pushes a button on the phone's panel. He puts on a headset/telephone, speaks into the mouthpiece.

SOMERSET:「I'm here.」
CALIFORNIA:「V.O.) (from headset) Downtown and moving west. Looks like you're going to be crossing water.」
SOMERSET:「If we're on the bridge, you keep your distance. You hear me?」
narrator:INT. POLICE HELICOPTER -- LATE AFTERNOON
 The helicopter hovers steady. California stows his binoculars.
SOMERSET:「V.O.) (from headset) Cross the river before us if necessary.」
CALIFORNIA:「You got it.」
narrator:California taps the pilot's helmet.
 EXT. CITY SKY -- LATE AFTERNOON
 The helicopter dips, flying like a bullet over the city skyline, heading towards the river and the setting sun.
 EXT. CITY STREETS -- LATE AFTERNOON
 FROM HIGH ABOVE, we see traffic on the highway at the polluted river's edge. Cards and trucks move like blood through veins.
 DOWN CLOSER, we can see Mills' car in the flow. The car turns into a lane of traffic on its way to the huge suspension bridge.
 Somerset's car is in close pursuit.
 UNDER THE BRIDGE, the police helicopter travels close to the water, moving parallel to the bridge, but low, so that it's out of the sightline of the vehicles above.
 INT. SOMERSET'S CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON
 Traffic is bumper to bumper. Somerset moves his headset mouthpiece to smoke a cigarette. He steers onto the bridge, under the massive girders.
MILLS:「V.O.) (from receiver) For us to go pick up two more dead bodies, and have that be the end of it... just seems too boring for you.」
narrator:INT. MILLS' CAR -- LATE AFTERNOON
 Beyond the crest of the bridge, the sunset is crimson.
MILLS:「Wouldn't be sensational enough.」
John Doe:「Wanting people to pay attention, you can't just tap them on the shoulder.」

narrator:John Doe strains to turn, looks out the back window.
John Doe:「CONT) Sometimes you have to hit them in the head with a sledgehammer... and then you get their strict attention.」
MILLS:「What are you looking at, Johnny?」
John Doe:「Looking back... at the city proper...」
narrator:Doe situates forward, holds his hands in front of his face, looking at his bandaged fingers.
John Doe:「CONT) And yet, no pillar of salt. (smiles to himself) Lost on you, isn't it? You've never read the Bible, have you, David?」
MILLS:「I remember a lot of people reading it at me when I was a kid. I preferred the classic comic version myself.」
narrator:This is an affront to Doe, angers him. Mills sees it, likes it.
MILLS:「CONT) I used to have "Godspell" on an eight- track tape. Does that count?」
narrator:Doe leans forwards, fury building in him.
John Doe:「You make me sick.」
MILLS:「Sit back, freak.」
narrator:Mills slams his fist against the partition. Doe sits back.
John Doe:「under his breath) Ignorant heathen.」

MILLS:「Right, right. I forgot. You think these murders were for God. Right? (pause) I'm asking you seriously. You really think what you did was God's good work?」
narrator:Doe looks out the window at other cars, refuses to answer.
 He's pressing the tips of his forefingers into his thumbs, causing blood to drip from under the bandages.
John Doe:「The Lord works in mysterious ways.」

narrator:EXT. CITY STREETS, INDUSTRIAL AREA -- NIGHT
 It's getting dark. We've been in this section of factories before, with John Doe. The police helicopter soars overhead.
 INT. POLICE HELICOPTER -- NIGHT
 California's looking down, wearing night-vision goggles.
 INSERT -- CALIFORNIA'S P.O.V. -- THROUGH GOGGLES
 The goggles allow California to see clearly into the maze formed by buildings, yards and worksheds below. No one in sight.
CALIFORNIA:「O.S.) Fuck, man... there's about a thousand places to be ambushed out here.」
narrator:INT. SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT
 The headlights are off. Mills' car's red brake lights are far ahead on this industrial road.
CALIFORNIA:「V.O.) (from headset) I don't see anything... not yet.」
SOMERSET:「in mouthpiece) A quick sweep is all we get. Clear out now. You're right in front of us.」
narrator:Somerset reaches to turn up the volume on his radio receiver. Mills is HEARD SINGING "Jesus Christ Superstar," loud. Somerset allows a very faint smile.
 INT. MILLS' CAR -- NIGHT
 Mills drives along, singing.
MILLS:「Jesus Christ, Superstar... who in the world do you think you are? Jesus Christ, Superstar...」
narrator:Doe's in the back seat, trying to bear it, steaming.
 EXT. INDUSTRIAL SKIES -- NIGHT
 The chopper goes high, away, over the industrial area.
 It moves to the other side of the factories and settles in low over the river.
 INT. SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT
 Mills' tune comes to a conclusion. Somerset slows the car as he sees Mills' brake lights go on ahead.
John Doe:「V.O.) (from receiver) We can walk from here.」

SOMERSET:「in mouthpiece) You stay out of this unless I call you in, California. Understand?」
CALIFORNIA:「V.O.) (from headset) You're in charge.」
narrator:Somerset takes off the headset/phone, stops the car.
 EXT. INDUSTRIAL ROAD, AT SOMERSET'S CAR -- NIGHT
 Somerset gets out. He looks through binoculars.
 INSERT -- SOMERSET'S P.O.V. -- THROUGH BINOCULARS
 Mills' car has stopped under the lights of a junk-yard. Mills gets out. He walks to unlock the passenger door.
MILLS:「V.O.) (from receiver) Alright, Somerset. Going for a stroll.」
narrator:AT MILLS' CAR
 Mills opens the passenger door. Doe looks out.
MILLS:「Lean on your side. Hands behind your head and lock your fingers together.」
narrator:Doe obliges. Mills moves to unchain Doe's feet, cautious.
 INSERT -- SOMERSET'S P.O.V. -- THROUGH BINOCULARS
 Mills lets Doe out. Doe does a deep knee bend to loosen his legs. Mills takes out his gun.
MILLS:「V.O.) (from receiver) Where are we going?」
narrator:Doe points with handcuffed hands, at a path through the junk- yard, towards warehouses. Mills motions with his gun.
MILLS:「V.O.,CONT) (from receiver) Lead the way.」
narrator:Doe starts walking. Mills follows, keeping the gun on Doe. We lose sight of them behind the junk-yard's massive pieces.
 AT SOMERSET'S CAR
 Somerset lowers his binoculars. He gets back in the car, leaves the lights off, drives slowly towards Mills' car.
 EXT. INDUSTRIAL AREA, JUNK-YARD -- NIGHT
 Mills follows Doe past rusting collections of machines. We took this walk with Doe before, through this metallic bone-yard.
John Doe:「It's right this way.」

narrator:Mills is on edge. His eyes search the towering, twisted junk. Sharp edges reach for the sky. Glass breaks under their feet.
MILLS:「So far, so good.」
narrator:SOUNDS of BOATS on the river can be HEARD. Doe's heading for the alleyway created by two warehouses beyond the junk-yard.
 Doe nears the alleyway. It is pitch dark. Doe stops before entering, turns to Mills.
John Doe:「In here.」

narrator:EXT. ABANDONED CHURCH/ORPHANAGE -- NIGHT
 The church stands elegant at night, when its decayed state is partially hidden. Small shafts of light escape from holes in the facade and just into the blackness.
 Somerset is out of his car. He strides towards the church, checks his gun as he goes. FOLLOW with him, getting closer to the church. He climbs the stairs.
 Somerset steps up and kicks the church doors open, met by a tremendous blast of light --
 INT. ABANDONED CHURCH -- NIGHT
 Flickering orange light from hundreds of once tall orange candles, now burnt low. They greet Somerset, in the church's old candle racks, on the floor, on the altar and all through out the pews.
 Somerset's eyes try to adjust to the light. He holds his gun ready, walks down the long center aisle.
John Doe:「O.S.) Hello, Somerset.」
narrator:Doe sounds far, his voice echoing from the front of the church.
SOMERSET:「Where's David?」
John Doe:「O.S.) He's here. With me.」
SOMERSET:「Tell me what you want.」
narrator:Somerset can see through the heat warp. Doe stands facing him from the altar.

John Doe:「What do I want? The same you... I want an ending. Stay where you are. Put your gun on the floor and slide it all the way down here.」
narrator:Somerset obeys, bends, slides the gun down the aisle till it hits the bottom altar stair. He keeps walking, slowly.
SOMERSET:「I want to see him. Show me Mills.」
narrator:On the altar, Doe is sweating hard, standing over Mills. Mills is slumped forward on the floor, unconscious. His bullet-proof vest has been removed.
 Mills' hands are tied tight together in front of him, tied to one end of the thick rope suspended from the ceiling. Doe holds the other end of the rope, has his gun tucked under his belt.
John Doe:「You're an intelligent man, Somerset. You understand what you're a part of, don't you? When this is finished, it will seem surreal, but it will be a whole, crystalline reality. And, no one will be able to deny it, no matter how hard they try.」
narrator:Doe's voice is thick with passion. Somerset is about halfway down the aisle, still moving.
SOMERSET:「You're a murderer. That's all. The only way you've distinguished yourself is by your particular brutality.」
narrator:Doe walks across the altar.

John Doe:「You know that's not true. You know.」
SOMERSET:「You're killing innocent people, and I should admire you? You're doing it because it gives you pleasure. That's the only purpose... your sick pleasure.」
narrator:Doe picks up a container of gasoline, looks out at Somerset.
John Doe:「Stay where you are!」
narrator:Somerset stops.
John Doe:「CONT) I won't deny my personal desires. I won't.」
narrator:Doe begins dousing Mills with gasoline, covering Mills' body and clothing. Mills stirs, coming to. He coughs, choking on the gas and fumes.
John Doe:「CONT) But, I don't mourn the victims in this any more than I mourn the thousands who died in Sodom and Gomorrah.」
narrator:Somerset looks fearful. He starts approaching again.
SOMERSET:「All you've done is cause more misery and pain! You've given people all the more reason to believe there is no God!」
narrator:Somerset eyes his gun at the bottom of the stairs.
 Doe sees Somerset moving, throws the gas can away, takes out his gun. Doe walks to the edge of the altar, all the time holding his end of the rope.
John Doe:「Stop!」

narrator:Somerset is twitching with anger, looking at the gun about fifteen feet in front of him.
 Mills manages to look up, weak, his eyes barely able to open because of the stinging gasoline.
MILLS:「Somerset?」
narrator:Doe takes one step down off the altar. Somerset is still edging forward, hands out away from his body.
SOMERSET:「Do you really think I'm just going to let this happen?! You think I'm going to let him die?」
John Doe:「Yes.」
narrator:Doe fires his gun and the bullet slams into the front of Somerset's bullet-proof vest. Somerset flies back, knocking over a rack of candles on his way to the floor.
 Doe walks quickly back onto the altar.
MILLS:「Motherfucker!」
narrator:Mills tries to grab at Doe as he passes, but Doe turns and kicks Mills in the ribs. Mills cringes in pain.
 Somerset lays in the aisle, on his stomach, gasping. He can't catch his breath, his twisted face pressed against the floor.
John Doe:「How can you speak of God, Somerset? When was the last time you spoke His name?」

narrator:Mills tries to rub the gas out of his eyes with his bound hands.
 His mind works feverishly. He looks around to see where he is, then he searches the floor. We can see, inside his open shirt, the bleeding, upside-down cross Doe has cut into his chest.
 Doe walks back to shout angrily down at Somerset.
John Doe:「CONT) When did you last speak His name? Was it in prayer? Or, did you say the Lord's name after you stubbed your big toe? Or, did you use His name to curse another man?」
narrator:Somerset holds his chest, blinking, trying not to black out.
 Mills finds a piece of broken stained glass on the floor. He picks it up, palms it, still choking on gasoline.
 Doe walks over to the statue of Saint Jerome Emiliani, pulling the rope from above so it goes taut and Mills' arms raise above his head. Doe wraps the rope around Emiliani's arm.
MILLS:「I'm going to kill you, Johnny. I'm going to see you dead.」
narrator:Doe begins twisting the loose end of the rope around the statue.

John Doe:「The irony, David, is that you policemen and I want the same things. But, you are so short sighted. In this city, where you can see a deadly sin on every street corner... and in every home, we want repentance.」
narrator:Mills clutches the glass piece and starts cutting the rope just above his hands.
John Doe:「CONT) We want good over evil. We want values instilled in the children. We want a world where a man or woman can lead a decent life. (pause) Wisdom, understanding, counsel, fortitude, knowledge, piety, and fear of the Lord. Such simple concepts. Why are they non-existent?」
narrator:Somerset manages to life his head, struggles to his knees.
SOMERSET:「weakly) Let him go, God damn you.」
narrator:Doe checks to make sure the rope around Saint Emiliani is secure, tightening the knots.
John Doe:「There were two men once, who had wonderful gardens. Two gardens of flowers that went on as far as the eye could see. Beautiful gardens... the fragrance was inspiration in itself.」
narrator:Doe stands behind Emiliani, heaves against the statue.
 Mills watches, gritting his teeth, rubbing the glass against the rope, fingers bleeding.

John Doe:「CONT) But, both gardens were beset by problems. Weeds started to take root, and there were infestations of insects and diseases. The gardens started to turn putrid. And, one man fought to save his garden, because he could never forget how it once was. Everyday he cut the weeds, and killed the insects. Fought the diseases.」
narrator:Doe finally topples the statue, down the altar stairs, and the other end of the rope pulls Mills upwards, screaming in pain. Mills is held, about eight feet in the air, legs dangling.
John Doe:「CONT) That man never had a beautiful garden again.」
MILLS:「Fuck you!」
John Doe:「The other man plowed his garden under. (pause) He plowed it under the soil. He started over.」
narrator:Somerset gets to his feet, steadying himself on a pew.
 Doe walks across the altar, picks up a long metal pole with a thick wick and candle snuffer on the end. He lights the wick from a near candle. The flame burns long and thin. He looks down at Somerset, takes out his gun.
John Doe:「CONT) Stay there, Somerset. Or, I'll kill him right now.」

narrator:Doe holds the flaming pole up, near Mills.
 Somerset stops. He looks up at Mills.
 Mills is straining. He nods to Somerset, and Somerset sees Mills cutting at the rope.
SOMERSET:「Alright... you don't have to do this, John. You've already made your point.」
John Doe:「Do you think I chose this? Can you even begin to understand how painful my existence has been? It's like... like having every sense heightened beyond comprehension.」
narrator:Doe lowers the flame, standing below and beside Mills, with his attention focused on Somerset.
John Doe:「CONT) So that the stench of the street coats your throat like bile. So, sugar is so sweet it... it makes your bones ache to the marrow.」
SOMERSET:「You're insane. That's why.」
John Doe:「seething) No! You're wrong!」
narrator:Mills continues cutting, bleeding, almost through the rope. He begins to swing his feet slightly, his body swaying.
John Doe:「CONT) I was chosen. And I've wished a thousand times I could have been a normal man. Like David Mills, a common man... with a common life. But, wishing that is my sin. I can't have it and I shouldn't.」
narrator:Doe steps towards Mills.

SOMERSET:「Don't do this!」
John Doe:「I meant what I said. I admire David Mills. I envy David Mills. (pause) Envy is my sin.」
