narrator:WIDER
 12
 Rising from his victim we see for the first time the revitalized face of this creature, a mane of blond hair frames the beautiful features of the VAMPIRE LESTAT -- his bulbous lips glistening red.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) Whether it was that first meal, the music, or the 100 years of rest, I'm not sure, but suddenly I was feeling better than ever. My appetite for living was voracious. My hearing so exact I could locate precisely the source of the music...」

narrator:EXT. NEW ORLEANS HOUSE - NIGHT
 13
 In the street, Lestat emerges from the shadows in the dealer's snug-fitting leather outfit. He looks up at an extremely run-down flophouse...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) My old house.」

narrator:INT. ATTIC - JUST AFTER
 14
 The room booms with music, speakers stacked high on all sides, literally shaking the house to its foundations.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 14
 REVEAL the band members of Satan's Night Out. JAMES, ALEX and MAUDY stare at each other as if in some tantric trance, as they play their music -- Alex's long fingers climbing up and down his guitar, Maudy's waifish body sensually curls around her keyboard, the waves of music flowing through them while James, on drums, drives them further into it.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) It was hard to believe these beings were mortal -- so confident in their skin. Everything in my body wanted to be with them. I couldn't help myself.」
narrator:Then, from somewhere in the room, an ANGELIC VOICE begins to hum the most hypnotic melody over the tune, melding in exquisite harmony. Arching her neck in some higher ecstasy, Maudy looks across the makeshift studio and suddenly stops playing.
 ALEX What the hell, Maudy.
 Seeing Maudy's stunned face, Alex and James turn to see Lestat perched like a raven on top of the stack of speakers, eyes closed, still humming to the fading reverb of the guitars. Slowly opening his cool grey eyes --

Lestat de Lioncourt:「Please don't stop.」
narrator:JAMES What the f-- How did you get in here?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「The door, of course.」
narrator:James and Alex look at the door on the other side of the attic -- they should have seen him. Maudy stares at Lestat, quite taken by the handsome vampire's looks -- Drinking Maudy in with his eyes --
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Your music woke me from the longest sleep. It's sublime. In two hundred years I've never heard anything quite like it.」
narrator:ALEX Who the hell are you?
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 14
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) The question provoked an irresistible urge...
 You may call me the vampire Lestat.」
narrator:As we REMAIN ON the stunned looks of the band's faces --
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) It just rolled out of my mouth. With one simple sentence I had betrayed everything about my kind. Betrayed our code of secrecy.
 Your struggles are over.」
narrator:Suddenly from across the room --
Lestat de Lioncourt:「All that you've ever dreamed of will be yours.」

narrator:They spin around to see Lestat now right behind them, smiling.
 ALEX (terrified) What the hell is this?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Your lucky day.」

narrator:EXT. SKIES - NIGHT
 15
 FLYING ACROSS night skies, as the distinctive dark sound of SATAN'S NIGHT OUT KICKS IN to join Lestat's soaring voice. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 15
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) It was a bold move, I admit. But from that moment on, they were my friends, my children, my band. Together we rode on the wave of my preternatural ambition to superstardom, giving the world a new god... me.」

narrator:INT. OFFICE BUILDING - SOON AFTER
 17
 A high-tech conference room. The band, sitting up front, is faced by an audience of over fifty journalists and then another fifty photographers and TV cameras. The room crackles with anticipation. Roger steps to the podium.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 17
ROGER:「May I present the Vampire Lestat.」
narrator:He pushes a button and a black curtain slides open to reveal a huge monitor on the wall.
 Every eye is glued to the SCREEN... CRACKLE, CRACKLE. Nothing. Then suddenly, on the screen, a face in shadow appears... Lestat. His voice booms out over the crowd.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Good evening. I'm so sorry I'm late. I was just having my... breakfast.」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 19
 Then Lestat leans forward into the light. Hushed whispers move through the crowd. Lestat's eyes burn unnaturally bright. His white skin absolutely glows, luminous. Lestat smiles out at them with a tight smile. Then grins wider, revealing his fangs.
 JOURNALIST Excellent makeup job.
 Marilyn Manson, look out...
 A thousand questions suddenly burst out of the journalists.
ROGER:「Hey, hey! We're gonna keep this short here! One at a time. You!」
narrator:He points to a PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST.
 PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST So, Lestat. You say you're a real vampire. Correct me if I'm wrong, but what I remember about vampires is you guys usually keep your identity secret.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Yes. But why hide it in this day and age? I've hidden in the shadows for centuries. It's time to share myself with the world.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 19
 In the corner, Roger gives a big winking smile to the camera crew. The journalists smile, playing along. A younger, hipper MUSIC magazine JOURNALIST pipes in...
 MUSIC JOURNALIST And it doesn't hurt the record sales, huh? Your album just topped all kinds of sales records.

Lestat de Lioncourt:「Our label isn't complaining, no.」
narrator:PRETTY FRENCH JOURNALIST Could you prove it? You know give us a demonstration of your powers?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「If you like, I'll give you a private demonstration in your hotel room tonight.」
narrator:The journalists laugh. The French Journalist looks a little frightened/fascinated by Lestat's leer.
 LIFESTYLE JOURNALIST Why not a demo at your own house? I mean, what's with all the secrecy about where you stay? Is it true you move residences every few days?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「smiles, giving away nothing) After calling one stone tomb home sweet home for so long, I like to experience as much diversity as I can. Wouldn't you?」

narrator:SMALL TV SCREEN
 20
 In a dark room, the interview continues.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 20
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) Maybe I'm trying to resurrect a few old friends with my words. Daring them to come out.」
narrator:MUSIC JOURNALIST Of the closet.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「smiles) The casket...」

narrator:BACK TO PRESS CONFERENCE
 22
 MUSIC JOURNALIST Your first and only concert's in Death Valley, just days away. Why just the one?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「grins) I don't like repeating myself.」
narrator:MUSIC JOURNALIST But these other vampires, aren't they going to be pissed that you're giving away their secrets?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I imagine they are, yes.」
narrator:LIFESTYLE JOURNALIST Do you have anything to say to the other vampires listening out there?
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Yes, as a matter of fact, I do...」
narrator:Leaning forward, Lestat smiles at the TV camera.
 MATCH CUT TO:
 INT. PRIVATE CLUB - TV
 23
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) Come out, come out, wherever you are.」

narrator:CAMERA BOOMS DOWN to reveal...
 A group of dangerous-looking vampires dressed in various styles, staring stony-faced up at the screen, their eyes glowing strangely in the ultra-violet light. The pool player is in the b.g. Other vampires, dressed in black, eyes cold as ice, stare up at the TV.
 VAMPIRE #1 Goddamn fool's going to bring back the Inquisition.
 VAMPIRE #2 I say we kill him, before this gets out of hand. Bleed him dry.
 VAMPIRE #1 Gotta find him first. Elusive bloke. Never know where he's going to turn up.
 VAMPIRE #2 Well we know one place he's definitely going to be...
 Next to him sits a female VAMPIRE, Evian bottle in hand.
 VAMPIRE #1 When I was in Manchester, the coven there was saying exactly the same thing. That we should nail him at the concert...
 FEMALE VAMPIRE #1 I don't know, if he's as old as they say, he's gotta be pretty strong... If you came within a mile of him, he'd eat you alive.
 She brings her Evian bottle to her lips.
 Drinks heartily. The liquid inside glistens deep red.
 VAMPIRE #1 Yes. Well let's see how he handles a thousand of us at once.
 Crack -- the pool player sinks the last ball on the pool table. The TV suddenly EXPLODES.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 23
 BACK TO LESTAT ON HUGE VIDEO SCREEN
 He smiles at the journalists.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「See you all in Death Valley.」

narrator:A
 EXT. LESTAT'S CHATEAU GROUNDS - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 25A
 Lestat walks across his lavish grounds, gazes up into the night.
 Staring up at the dark heavens, Lestat inhales like an emperor taking in his kingdom, stretches his arms out, still drinking in the adulation.
 Slowly, his grin fades...
 A melancholy look comes over Lestat.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「quietly, to world) Come out, come out, whoever you are.」

narrator:EXT. AROUND CORNER - JUST AFTERWARDS
 42
 Bouncer #1 is now making out with one of the young sexy girls he let in, trying to get a hand up her dress.
 A cold WIND suddenly blows, fluttering her skirt.
 He looks up. A dark figure stands in the shadows.
 BOUNCER #1 Hey, perv, get the hell out of here.
 The figure steps from the shadows.
 The Bouncer's face turns white.
 It's Lestat...
 The Bouncer starts to back way. The girl starts to scream. Lestat clamps his hand over the girl's mouth. To the girl...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You.
 In...」
narrator:He gestures to the club. The girl turns and runs for her life. As the Bouncer backs away, terrified, Lestat turns to him.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 42
Lestat de Lioncourt:「softly) You.
 No.」

narrator:INT. STUDIO
 47
 James, Alex, and Maudy "whoop" with excitement.
 JAMES We rock.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Yes, I'd say I'm down with that.」
narrator:They all laugh.
 JAMES I'm ready for Los Angeles...
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 47
 MAUDY I'm ready for Death Valley. (jazzed) Two days till we go...
 THROUGH the broken glass we see Roger slump into a chair, his nerves totally frayed.
 ALEX Think we can call that a night.
 Unhooking their instruments, Alex and James start to pack up as Maudy slowly approaches Lestat and nuzzles his neck.
 He shivers with temptation. Her hand moves down the front of his pants. Lestat pulls her into his arms. Leaning into her neck he breathes in her scent, closes his eyes and... Suddenly opens them right at Roger who looks on, extremely perturbed. Smiling like the devil...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Oh, the sweet song of her blood.」
narrator:Roger stares on, terrified.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'll hear it in my head all night.」
narrator:Gently letting Maudy go...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Roger...」

narrator:He goes directly to Roger, reaches into his open shirt, pulls out the crucifix around his neck.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I didn't know you were religious.」
narrator:Roger tries to laugh it off. Lestat sniffs the air. As Roger backs away, he turns to open the door, stumbles, cutting his hand on a fallen shard of glass. Blood trickles from the cut. Roger looks up at Lestat whose dark eyes stare intensely at Roger's blood. Roger quickly sticks his hand in his mouth. With a horrified expression, he realizes he's sucking his blood. He quickly heads out. But Lestat is faster and reaches into Roger's shirt pocket. Pulls out a clove of garlic.
 Lestat shakes his head with a smile.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Roger...」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 47
 Roger tries to laugh. Reaches for the garlic to put it back in his pocket. But Lestat grabs Roger's hand, blood trickling down his wrist. Lestat speaks intensely.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Be careful, Roger.
 Very careful.」

narrator:FLASHBACK - EXT. MEDITERRANEAN ISLAND - FULL SHOT
 50
 A solitary paradise in a rough, nighttime sea.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 50
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) It was the winter of 1788 and I was brought to a Mediterranean Island by the man who made me...」
narrator:A lightning flash illuminates a sprawling 18th-Century sea-front villa.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) ... if a man is what you'd call him.」

narrator:INT. VILLA BEDROOM - NIGHT
 51
 A great round room encircled with candles, their reflections flickering in the great glass windows braving back the outside STORM. A huge antique bed sits in the room's center, and on it... Lestat lays feverish and fitful, dressed in a soft linen nightshirt. His neck wears a swollen bite. Another flash of lightning suddenly jolts him awake. His hands feel the inflamed wound as he sees...
 An indistinct shape of a man dressed in draping red velvet, sitting asleep in a chair across the room. An easel stands before him, holding an unseen painting. Lestat rises out of the bed and grabs his clothes from a nearby Louis IV chair. He makes for a door when...
 Lestat suddenly stops. He looks back to see the painting that stands on the easel. It's a portrait of himself in ancient Roman garb, like the god Mars, complete with his blond hair and fiery blue eyes. Unable to help himself, he approaches the painting, completely fascinated by his own image, when suddenly...
 The sleeping man leaps up, grabs
 Lestat unmercifully and again plunges his teeth into the
 young man's neck. Lestat fights as best he can but
 his strength is no match as he's slowly drawn down to the
 floor. Finally...
 The strange man lifts himself up from Lestat's neck to reveal the face of the vampire MARIUS, the mysterious figure. Wiping his blooded mouth on his painter's cloth --
MARIUS:「Lestat.
 Welcome.」
narrator:Weakened and helpless, Lestat drags himself back across the floor in terror.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 51
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Who are you? Do I know you?」

MARIUS:「I'm unknowable by nature.」
narrator:Marius advances again on the young man...
MARIUS:「But you may call me Marius.」
narrator:As Lestat keeps weakly dragging himself away.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'm the lord of a great manor. They'll send an army of men to look for me.」
MARIUS:「I doubt they'll find you, Lord De Lioncourt. You're a long way from home...」
narrator:His strength leaving him, Lestat slumps flat on the floor.
MARIUS:「You're weak... near passing. I can barely hear your heartbeat.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'll kill you!」
narrator:Marius smiles, impressed.
MARIUS:「You really do fear nothing. It is why I chose you. Because you think things are possible which aren't possible...」
narrator:Lestat stares at him, his eyes wide.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Chose me? For what?」
MARIUS:「My companion. Someone to share my burden.」
narrator:Bending down, he gazes at Lestat.
MARIUS:「You've lost a great deal of blood.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 51
Lestat de Lioncourt:「near tears) I'm dying.」

narrator:BACK TO LESTAT
 53
 He keeps drinking from the vampire Marius who gasps with the creation of his child.
MARIUS:「Drink... drink and learn.」
narrator:Lestat's body grows stronger, his back arching up as he draws the "life" into him with full force, as... Marius begins to weaken, himself.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 53
MARIUS:「There... there... that will do.」
narrator:But Lestat keeps on feeding hungrily.
MARIUS:「No... no more.
 Lestat, no more!」
narrator:With one great move, Marius pulls Lestat off his arm and tosses him across the floor twenty feet away. Marius reels back, clamping his open vein with his hand as Lestat curls on the ground, gasping ecstatically from the rush.
 Slowly, Lestat starts to feel something. Pain begins travelling through his body, consuming him until he screams. Marius crosses to Lestat convulsing on the floor. He kneels and gently wipes his brow. Lestat's body thrashes as he grabs at his own limbs...
MARIUS:「Don't be afraid, it's only your body that dies...」
narrator:Wiping his brow as he dies...
 Then, Lestat's face still buried in his arms, he begins to laugh almost drunkenly. Raising his head, his metamorphosis is clear as his face pales and his eyes fill with a new kind of power.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「More!」

narrator:EXT. BEACH - NIGHT
 54
 A million stars...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) I impressed my maker with my thirst for things. He set out to educate me in the unknown. Taught me all about the world, its hidden history... and about myself.」
narrator:TILT DOWN to reveal an old fisherman who cries out as Lestat bites into his throat. Marius watches as the fisherman's body relaxes. He pulls Lestat away.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 54
MARIUS:「That's enough, my son... When you feed, you must hold back from the moment of death. You must never take the last drop, or it will draw you in and you will die...」
narrator:The fisherman is moaning. Looking down at the suffering victim, Marius swiftly snaps his neck and dumps him into a boat. He picks up an oar, and with vampire strength, drives it like a stake through the bottom of the boat. Water starts bubbling in.
MARIUS:「Remember, there is wisdom in the flesh, Lestat. A man wears his history on his skin...」
narrator:Marius feels Lestat's gaze, turns to him.
MARIUS:「I'm talking about humanity.」

narrator:As Lestat watches the water begin to fill the bottom of the boat...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Humanity? (snort) We're murderers.」

narrator:EXT. BEACH - NIGHT
 55
 Below the brightest of summer night skies, Lestat and Marius walk along, talking intensely. The ocean appears to shimmer in the faint light of stars. In the distance, several bonfires burn on the sand, dancing figures gathered around.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 55
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) My senses run amok, like a newborn child. And as for my new powers, I was beside myself with the pleasure of it all...」
MARIUS:「The trick is to find the way to face eternity head on. The spirit can be annihilated by boredom just as the body can be destroyed by sun or fire. My solace, my delight, is witnessing the unfolding of human destiny...」
narrator:Lestat gazes at Marius's eyes dancing with intellectual fervor. As they walk, they pass a group of teenagers, just younger than Lestat, at a bonfire, dancing, laughing.
 Lestat gazes over at them as he and Marius pass, hidden in shadow.
MARIUS:「From Christ to the Dark Ages to the enlightenment, I've never been able to divine what was coming. That's what keeps me going -- I can't wait to see what human beings are going to do next...」

narrator:Lestat nods, taking it in. They pass another bonfire. MUSIC floats through the night. An OLDER MAN, 50, plays balalaika while his daughter, 18, plays violin with great passion.
MARIUS:「Who could've predicted the Enlightenment? Or Hannibal and his elephants?」
narrator:Marius stops talking, turns. Lestat is no longer beside him. Marius turns back and sees Lestat standing in the shadows, listening to the music. The young woman, sensing something, turns towards Lestat in the shadows as she plays. Marius goes to Lestat, pulls him farther into the shadows.
MARIUS:「Careful.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 55
Lestat de Lioncourt:「But why must we hide, Marius? We are the powerful, we are the immortal. We should walk fearless in the open!」
MARIUS:「Shhh. The life of a vampire is a life of discretion. We must sleep during the day, when we are vulnerable to the sun. Mortals must never know about us. It is forbidden, for the sake of all our kind.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「gazing at violin player as it sinks in) So I could never know her?」

MARIUS:「Not unless you wanted to kill her.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「beat, quietly, intensely) So I can never be known?」
MARIUS:「You're known by me. I granted you that. There are others of our kind... though most are solitary creatures.」
narrator:Lestat's eyes fill with some existential realization.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「My God...」
MARIUS:「Forget God. You're no longer in his realm. Now we must leave.」

narrator:Relenting, Lestat starts to follow. But the music quickens. Lestat pauses, turns back. As if the music is calling to him.
 The girl still faces into the shadows towards him, and plays fast and wild, her fingers flying. Lestat stands there frozen to the spot. The music pulses through him. He gazes at her fingers, studying their intricate movements intensely...
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (3)
 55
 Impulsively, Lestat goes back to them, hovers, his face still somewhat obscured by the darkness. Lestat starts clapping along to the music, exuberantly.
 The girl and Father smile, nod to him as they play. Marius, in the shadows, is fuming. Lestat's eyes fill with the moment, the girl's vitality. He notices that sitting on the ground by the girl are several instruments. Impulsively, he reaches over, picks up a violin. He studies the girl's playing again, then with his new powers, as if by osmosis...
 Begins to play with exactly her skill, exactly her movements.
 The girl and her Father laugh, delighted with this new musician. Lestat plays along with them, joyful, exhilarated. The girl's fingers fly. Lestat's fingers pick up speed. Faster. Faster. A glittering torrent of notes fly out of his violin as if made of gold.
 Unconsciously, Lestat steps closer to the music, into firelight. The Father and his daughter become less certain, as they gaze at Lestat's strange, pale, glowing skin, the luminous shine of eyes. But Lestat is completely taken by the music, the moment. The Father and the daughter, sensing something strange, stop playing. Lestat looks up. Sees terror in their eyes. The Father is slowly backing away, pointing in horror at Lestat.
 FATHER Fantasma!! Teras!!
 Lightning fast, out of the shadows, steps Marius. He grabs the Father. The girl drops her violin, turns, starts running down the beach to a bonfire in the distance.
MARIUS:「Stop her, Lestat!」
narrator:Lestat turns to Marius, shaking his head no in horror.
MARIUS:「You must!」
narrator:Lestat hesitates, then runs after the girl. She turns back, sees him getting closer, starts to scream... Lestat is suddenly in front of her with his hand over her mouth, covering her muffled scream.
 Her struggle is no use against his strength. Reaching up to her neck, he touches it. He looks into her terrified eyes...
 CUT TO:
 EXT. ISLAND'S SOUTH SHORE - NIGHT
 56
 Marius kneels over the body of the Father on the island's deserted shoreline. Tosses him in a boat. Lestat gazes at the lifeless body of the girl. Marius turns to Lestat, furious.
MARIUS:「I will not have you put everything at risk! You will mind our laws!」
narrator:Picking up Lestat's victim, Marius tosses her into the boat as well.

MARIUS:「We remain in the shadows.
 To do otherwise is a road to destruction...」
narrator:Marius turns to Lestat, who stands in silence, gazing at the girl and her Father.
MARIUS:「quietly) I see you still have a few lingering mortal emotions. They will serve you no good, Lestat.」
narrator:Lestat turns to Marius, shaking his head, speaks in a horrified whisper...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「My God, what have you done to me?」
narrator:Lestat turns again toward the bodies of the dead girl and her Father, his face filled with pain, enormous sadness.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「whisper) She's just a child... forgive me.」

narrator:EXTREME CLOSEUP - LESTAT
 57
 closes his eyes.
 A violent VIOLIN STRAIN as we PULL BACK to see...
 Lestat standing alone in the bedroom, in a deep reverie, playing the girl's violin with incredible passion. His playing picks up speed as he works himself into a Pagnani furor...
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 57
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) The faces of my victims haunted me, rising behind my eyes, reminding me of my fate... I played for days trying to expel the last bit of my human feelings... and face the cold, dark wasteland of eternity...」

narrator:EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT
 74
 Jesse hurries up the alley. Breaks into a run. But the three Punk Vampires from the bar have somehow gotten outside. They land in front of her, beside her, behind her. Heart racing, she shakes with fear. They close in, smiling.
 PUNK VAMPIRE #3 Now this isn't gonna hurt.
 You might even enjoy it...
 He runs his hand up and down her body. Jesse starts to shake. She breaks out in a cold sweat. The others grin. He picks her up by the throat. Her legs flail in the air...
 Suddenly, the two vampires turn and hiss like cats. Jesse hits the flagstones hard with a grunt. She gasps for air, looks up as the vampires are hurled out of the alley by an invisible force. Jesse alone, turns, still woozy. Finds herself staring at...
 Lestat...
 Jesse's eyes open wide, entirely stunned.
 He drinks her in with his eyes, marking the soft paleness of her skin, her long, red hair, the flush on her cheeks, her pulsing jugular.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 74
 Jesse stares into his entrancing grey eyes, tries to gather herself together, half fearful, half titillated. They gaze at each other, the air suddenly electric.
JESSE:「You saved me.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Perhaps... So you know Marius...」

narrator:Jesse notices her rucksack cast aside by the Punk Vampires -- Lestat's journal sticks out. She glances at Lestat. He mustn't see it. She steps away, tries to distract him.
JESSE:「I know a lot of things.」
narrator:He gazes at her. Moves closer, breathing her in, making her flustered. He smiles.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Not how to stay alive apparently.」
JESSE:「Well I guess we've got that in common. Although I think I'm a little ahead in the race here.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「a beat, surprised at her brazenness) Well, I can fix that.」
narrator:He circles her. Jesse is shaking, terrified. Enjoying the game, Lestat smiles, moves closer. But Jesse suddenly blurts out.
JESSE:「Mine eyes dazzle, she died so young.' It's about the girl with the violin, isn't it?」
narrator:That stops Lestat. He gazes at Jesse, surprised. Recovers his composure. Stares at her intensely, regarding her anew.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Is it? And what else do you think you know?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 74
JESSE:「desperate, stalling) I... I think you're a lot like Marius, Lestat.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「staring into her eyes, probing) Am I?
 Tell me all about it.」
JESSE:「You're... you're both artists.
 He's a painter. You're a singer...」
narrator:As she speaks, Lestat guides Jesse over to a pile of crates. She stares at some beer bottles shattered on the top of one. He guides her hand downward, closer to the shattered glass.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Is that so?
 What I do is art, is it?」
JESSE:「Yes... From nothing... you try to create... something beautiful... (shaking now as her hand gets closer and closer) ... out of the... the cold, dark wasteland of eternity...」
narrator:He stares at her, the words oddly familiar, then scrapes her finger along the bits of broken glass, gravel. She gasps with pain...
 Lestat gazes at the drops of blood that appear, glistening on Jesse's finger...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「softly) Something beautiful...」

JESSE:「quickly) But... but Marius isn't a rebel. You're different in that way. You don't want to hide, follow the laws, concealed in the shadows like some insect. You... you still want to walk with the living, don't you, Lestat?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (3)
 74
 He stares into her eyes, slowly brings her bleeding finger toward his mouth.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Well, I'm not hiding now, am I?」
narrator:As her bleeding thumb gets closer and closer to his mouth...
JESSE:「No, but the only time you're not really alone is when you kill... But, Lestat, you can't help it... it's not your fault... He made you this way...」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「with her blood on his lips, shakes his head) Ah.
 Poor, poor me...」

narrator:As he brings her finger closer and closer to his mouth.
 Their eyes bore into each other, he stares at her rosy cheeks, the cold sweat on her forehead, taking in her remarkable, if foolhardy daring. Her eyes gazing straight into his...
 He brings her bleeding finger into his mouth.
 She may swoon.
 Lestat's eyes burn as he tastes her for mortality, her fragility a brief second, listening to her blood. there's something there that surprises him as he gazes at this mortal girl. He feels something. Desire...
 Then her blood speaks to him as Lestat's eyes fall on her rucksack. He sees the journal. It all falls into place.
 Lestat's lip curls in anger. He shoves Jesse away. Wipes his mouth. The mood suddenly changes.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Well, Talamascan, you're certainly a very clever librarian, aren't you?」
narrator:She stares at him, found out. He turns from her, laughing, but not the kind of laugh to make Jesse think all's well.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (4)
 74
Lestat de Lioncourt:「shaking his head) How sad, you people always trying to know the unknowable... So, was it a good read? My diary.」

narrator:Jesse slowly nods, admitting to all.
 He shakes his head.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Talamasca's been following me for years. I've never known one to be so brave. Or is it just foolish?」
JESSE:「I... I'm only an apprentice.」
narrator:He waves her off, dismissive.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Go. I'm through with you. Your kind never satisfies my thirst.」
narrator:He turns, walks away. Jesse lets out a sigh of relief, then stares after him. She hesitates, then suddenly calls out:
JESSE:「Does anything, Lestat?」
narrator:A pause in his gait. But he keeps walking away.
 Jesse hesitates again, but still calls out.
JESSE:「I mean, what's the point of coming into the light if not to have someone really know you?」
narrator:But he keeps going.
 She takes one last chance --
JESSE:「You want the world to see you're real, don't you, Lestat? Don't you? Well, here I am!」

narrator:Suddenly Lestat spins. Stares at the fragile mortal girl risking everything. Flash. Jesse gasps.
 He now stands right before her. He grabs her, pulls her to him close, tight, hard. He could just snap her neck and be done with it.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (5)
 74
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You better just stick to your books, Talamascan. 'Cause you have it all wrong. I love all this. I delight in it. The dark, dreary world I went to sleep in has burnt itself out and been replaced by the 20th Century -- can you imagine my joy at waking up to discover such a world? It has outdistanced my wildest dreams of it. I scream of good and evil, and mortals stand and cheer. I adore being back in action... every moment, every single drop of it! Now consider yourself exceedingly lucky and go!」
narrator:He pushes her away.
 She gasps, humbled by his physical power.
 She retrieves her rucksack. Starts away. As she reaches the end of the alley, she pauses, takes a breath, turns back, daring everything.
JESSE:「Lestat!」
narrator:He turns back, stares at her, astonished.
JESSE:「There's something you left out of your diary.」

Lestat de Lioncourt:「amazed) What?」

narrator:INT. LESTAT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 76
 Lestat enters the bedroom. Behind him, Lestat's dressing room stretches off into the distance, rows of beautiful suits made from the finest wools and silks. The gradation of colors is spectacular. Peering out at the near-dawn light, a look of loneliness clouds his face.
 He crosses to the closet. Opens a panel to reveal a safe. Stares at it a moment. Punches in the code. It swings open to reveal something wrapped carefully in black velvet. Lestat unwraps it delicately. It's the ancient violin.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「softly) Clever, clever librarian.」
narrator:He quickly puts the violin back, closes the safe door. He shakes his head, tries to laugh it off. But a shadow remains on his face. Lestat hears a gasp. Turns. Roger has just entered.
ROGER:「I didn't see you come in.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「No, Roger, you wouldn't have.」
ROGER:「So this house is fine I assume. To your liking?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Yes.
 For the moment.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 76

ROGER:「We'll be here for what?
 A week you think?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Well... I wouldn't unpack if I were you. ROGER (sighs) Right... the... girls you asked for. They're in the guest wing.
 Ah.
 Yes.」
narrator:Lestat gazes at the door, pensive.
ROGER:「Do you want me to take them home later?」
narrator:Lestat smiles at the clumsy attempt to protect the girls.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「No, thank you, Roger. I'll make sure they're taken care of.」

narrator:INT. LESTAT'S GUEST WING - SOON AFTER
 77
 CAMERA MOVES OUT INTO the lavish room TOWARD the two girls who are now dreamy, floating with the effect of the joint they are smoking. REVEAL Lestat as he approaches the girls. Looking up, they smile childishly at their host, then fall about laughing.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I don't think we've met.」
GROUPIE #1:「Oh my God... It's really you, isn't it?」
narrator:GROUPIE #2 We want to be your slaves.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Of course you do.」
narrator:He smiles.
 She offers a joint.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 77
GROUPIE #1:「Want some?」
narrator:Lestat calmly shakes his head.
GROUPIE #1:「Want me?」
narrator:Circling the couches, he just smiles.
GROUPIE #1:「You hungry?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'm always hungry.」
GROUPIE #1:「We've got the munchies?
 You got any food?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Vampires don't eat... food.」

narrator:The girls laugh nervously.
 Lestat laughs dangerously...
GROUPIE #1:「You hungry for something else?」
narrator:She opens her legs provocatively. Pacing across the room, he stands before the girls. He curls his finger around the first groupie's hair when a shadow crosses his face.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Mine eyes dazzle, she died so young.」
GROUPIE #1:「Huh?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「It's a very old poem of mine.」
narrator:Losing enthusiasm, Lestat walks away and drops himself onto a couch. With a clap of his hands, the TV switches ON. He silently watches one of his video clips.
 The girls glance at each other, then, giggling, crawl over toward Lestat. Groupie #1 slides her hand slowly up his leg.
GROUPIE #1:「C'mon, don't you want to have some fun?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 77
 She reaches for his belt. But he recoils at the touch and slides off the couch onto the floor with grace.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Don't do that.」
GROUPIE #1:「giggling) Are you ticklish?」

Lestat de Lioncourt:「deadpan) I'm very ticklish.」
narrator:The Second Groupie giggles as well...
 GROUPIE #2 Hey, you ever been tickled by four hands at once? Hey, can you take both us, Lestat? What'd'ya think?
 And at once they both start after Lestat on all fours to tickle him. He gazes at them, torn, then laughs at the sight and gets down on...
 All fours as well as he leads them around the room in a childish game.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I don't know.
 Let's see.」

narrator:FLASHBACK - INT. VILLA - BEDROOM - LESTAT
 83
 Lestat standing alone in the bedroom in a deep reverie, playing the violin, with incredible passion.
 His playing picks up speed, the bow bending across the strings with a maestro's speed and precision.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) Yes, Marius was impressed with my thirst for knowledge... But it」
narrator:turned out that there was such a thing as knowing too much. There were things Marius was not yet ready to teach me... and Marius and I parted ways.
 Suddenly, the bow flies out of his hand and slides across the floor, jamming itself under an old bookcase. Lestat comes out of his spell, walks across the room to the bookcase, bends down to cleave the bow out from under it. Having difficulty, he pushes back an old rug on the floor when he sees something...
 Carved into one of the floorboards is an Egyptian eye with a hole dug out of its iris. Stepping aside, he realizes he is standing on a manhole. A beat ON Lestat as he thinks... Poking his finger through the hole of the Egyptian eye, he lifts the manhole to reveal a steep set of steps leading down into the villa's basement.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Marius!」

narrator:INT. SANCTUARY - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 86
 Lestat enters, squinting through the bright light from scores of burning sconces. At the far end of the sanctuary Lestat makes out the shape of two statues, an Egyptian man and an Egyptian woman sitting stone still, seemingly staring straight at him, AKASHA and her King, ENKIL. We recognize Akasha from the sketches in Talbot's office. Stepping closer, they appear not to be statues at all but rather alabaster humans with the palest skin imaginable. His eyes widen at the sight of their clothes -- the most valuable Egyptian finery; bracelets of gold, headdresses of incredible gems, clothes of silk. Staring up into their faces, Lestat is struck with the realization...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「They're... alive.」
narrator:Lestat is drawn to the woman -- her form and beauty is exquisite even in its absolute stillness. As if this statue had just asked him to play, Lestat holds out his violin.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Would you like me to play for you?」

narrator:INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - NIGHT
 91
 Lestat lays in bed, feverish, his skin paler than ever. At the foot of the bed stands Marius.
MARIUS:「quietly) Lestat?」
narrator:The young vampire's eyes bulge open in the grip of some incredible sensation, smiling the most wicked of smiles. Lestat's chest heaves upward, pulling his body with it, only to be jerked back by the manacles that hold him to the bed.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「More!」
MARIUS:「I don't think so, my little lord.」
narrator:Lestat writhes with a physical delight that is almost painful. Lestat realizes he is shackled to the bed with manacles and chains. Struggles against them.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Let me go!」
MARIUS:「No. You've drunk the purest blood. Seen the oldest of things -- far too much for one as young as you. You've been unconscious for days.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「God, her blood is like liquid fire. (squirms) Who are they?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 91

MARIUS:「She... she is your mother, my mother... Akasha, the Queen of all who are damned. And he is her King.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Release me!」
narrator:Lestat struggles with all his might. One of his manacles splits, releasing a leg. Marius stares, surprised.
MARIUS:「She made you quite powerful. (withdrawing a saber from its sheath) Don't make me use this!」
narrator:Lestat still struggles.
 The manacles strain.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Marius, please, just one more time. I felt the sun. The light, Marius, the light!」
narrator:Suddenly pressing the knife to Lestat's throat --
MARIUS:「Lestat, listen to me! I have watched over Akasha and her King for 2000 years! They must never awaken!」
narrator:Lestat stares up at him.
MARIUS:「Akasha and her King nearly drank this earth dry when they ruled over Egypt. They drank until they lost their will to drink. They became living statues. And yet Akasha still sustains the life force of all vampires. It is believed what happens to her, happens to all of us.」

narrator:Lestat gazes up at him, taking it in.
 Marius moves slowly away.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 91
MARIUS:「If she were ever to rise, she would again desiccate the earth! She has no respect for anything except the taste of blood. Immortal and human alike...」
narrator:Lestat roars and struggles against his manacles.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You'll not stop me...」
narrator:Marius stares at him, shocked.
MARIUS:「I hear her blood in your voice... In all the years I've cared for them, not once have they moved...」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Until tonight. And she chose me! Me! Never you! You'll not stop me!」
narrator:Marius moves at super-speed, grabs Lestat by the neck, and pins him down.
MARIUS:「You are part of a great coven! You take responsibility for your kind!」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「snarls) I must have more!」
narrator:Lestat, lost, looks at Marius, his eyes intoxicated with Akasha's blood. Marius steps back. Looks at his fledgling with great sadness, anger, disappointment.

MARIUS:「I chose you for your bravery, but I was wrong. You know only selfishness. I can no longer trust you... It gives me no pleasure to look upon what I have created.」
narrator:Marius turns his back on Lestat.
 Lestat stares after him.
 INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - NEXT DAY
 92
 THROUGH the balcony we see the last warm colors of the sunset vanish into the blue of night. Lestat awakens, his manacles removed. He stretches, shakes his head, as if clearing his head, but something causes him to stop... Something has changed. Marius's paints have gone. Some of his paintings remain, but his easel and paint boxes are removed, leaving splattered outlines on the faded marble floor.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Marius!」

narrator:INT. MARIUS'S VILLA - UNDERGROUND SANCTUARY
 94
 Lestat throws open the doors and enters to find... Akasha and Enkil have been taken, as have the thrones and most of the royal paraphernalia.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Marius!
 Please!」

narrator:EXT. MARIUS'S VILLA/BEACH - NIGHT
 95
 Lestat runs down the beach, the sand showing no footprints.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) Many times since, I have called to Marius. I howled into the night in loneliness and pain.」
narrator:Lestat screams into the darkness, filled with despair, grief. He disappears off into the night.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「V.O.) But there was no answer -- just the endless procession of days, months, years... My teacher left me to my darkest lesson -- that in the end, we are alone.」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 114
 Dabbing his mouth with a handkerchief, Lestat tosses it on top of the matches to reveal fresh bloodstains on the cloth... a look of loneliness clouds his face.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 114
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I hate bedtime.」

narrator:WIDER
 117
 A painting leans against a wall, turned front-side-over. Lestat gets out of his coffin and goes over to the painting with trepidation. He turns it over and then smiles to himself. It is a portrait of Lestat as a rocker. The hand and style are unmistakable.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「whisper) Marius...!」

narrator:INT. LESTAT'S MANSION - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 118
 Lestat bursts out the doors of his bedroom and looks down into the living room. Marius sits on a couch, still dressed in red velvet, studying the Rolling Stone with Lestat on the cover.
MARIUS:「Lestat.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 118
 Marius looks up. The two vampires regard each other for a long moment. Lestat is overcome with conflicting emotions. Guarded smiles rise to their faces.
MARIUS:「It is good to see you, Lestat.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「And you. Still wearing the old fashions, I see.」
MARIUS:「Old habits die hard.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「How did you manage to slip through the 1950s in red velvet?」
MARIUS:「I slept.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Don't think you missed much.」
MARIUS:「Elvis.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Elvis, yes.」
MARIUS:「holding up the Rolling Stone) You're bigger than he is now.」

Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'd say a few pounds lighter. Though, if you ever catch me wearing a white jumpsuit, you have my permission to slice off my head.」
MARIUS:「If someone doesn't get to you first.」
narrator:Lestat grins, feeling Marius's disapproval.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Live and let live.」
MARIUS:「If it were only so simple, my son.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 118
Lestat de Lioncourt:「a beat) How did you find me?」
MARIUS:「You forget. We ancients have powers no ordinary vampires possess... And I know you. I remembered how you admired the medieval fortresses in the hilltowns of Lyon. (gestures to house) All you're missing is the moat and the cannons... which you may need.」
narrator:Lestat doesn't want to hear it.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Come, let me show you what it means to live in the light.」

narrator:EXT. SUNSET BLVD. - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 119
 Lestat and Marius sit perched on a giant billboard advertising Lestat's concert. Down below, Sunset Strip is filled with Goths, club hoppers, HONKING CARS, a traffic jam.
MARIUS:「sarcastic) Impressive. Reminds me of mad old Druids running around chanting in the forest. Very primitive stuff.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Out there. My fans. Thousands and thousands. They worship me. Millions of arms reach out to embrace, beg me to come into their lives.」
MARIUS:「It's what you've always wanted.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「With all my black little heart.」
MARIUS:「Do you think of anyone but yourself?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 119
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I only have myself.」
MARIUS:「It may be time to get ready for some company.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「What's that supposed to mean?」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 121
 Lestat suddenly opens his eyes as the sounds of the WORLD rush BACK IN. Marius stares for a beat, then --
MARIUS:「Akasha has risen. She has taken her King's blood. Absorbed his power. You've done it this time.」
narrator:Lestat stares at Marius, letting the knowledge sink in. Then he grins.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Good! I'm glad she's risen!
 Let her come.」
MARIUS:「Don't you understand?
 You must stop this concert!」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 121
Lestat de Lioncourt:「shakes his head at Marius) 200 years and the same broken record.」
MARIUS:「No. Not the same! You've only known Akasha dormant. She too will find you. She is choosing her moment. She has come to destroy you, Lestat. And in her wrath, she will devour everything that moves. Mortal and vampire alike.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「smiles at Marius, softly) Well then, it's every vampire for himself. Just the kind of rules I like. The rules you taught me.」

narrator:Marius is enraged, tries to control himself.
 Lestat gazes at him, speaks steadily.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Do you remember your first words to me, Marius? 'I am unknowable.' (shakes his head) I'd rather not exist at all than have to live eternally as a ghost.」
MARIUS:「And you're taking everyone with you, you fool! We were once mortals, too. It is our heritage we protect!」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「moving away) Such reverence for mortals! Then you should have left me as one!」
MARIUS:「You're a monster.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「shakes his head with a dark laugh) Said the vampire to his son.」

narrator:INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 129
 Roger now stands there, a nervous look on his face.
ROGER:「The... girls you asked for, Lestat. They're here, in the guest wing.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Ah.
 Yes.」
narrator:Lestat gazes in that direction, pensive.
ROGER:「I was uh... just gonna go catch a movie at the Chinese. I don't suppose you'd all want to...」
narrator:Lestat smiles at the clumsy attempt to protect the girls.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「No, thank you, Roger.
 We'll entertain ourselves.」

narrator:INT. GUEST WING - JUST AFTER
 130
 Roger and Lestat walk in.
 A young GROUPIE giggles nervously.
 GROUPIE #3 Oh my God, it's him!
 It's really him...
 She turns in paroxysm of excitement to the girl next to her. Lestat stares, taken aback. It is Jesse. Dressed in Goth gear. Jesse stares back at Lestat brazenly. A long moment.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Perhaps you would like a tour of the place... first.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 130
 GROUPIE #3 Oh yeah, wow, we'd love that.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Roger... would you be so kind?」
ROGER:「surprised, relieved) Sure. Right this way, girls.」
narrator:As they start off, Lestat puts up his hand, points to Jesse.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Roger. Not that one.
 Leave her to me...」
narrator:The other groupie pouts, disappointed. She goes out with Roger. Lestat turns to Jesse... considers her...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You must be very keen to die.」
narrator:Jesse's heart pounds with terror.

Lestat de Lioncourt:「The Talamascans have become quite stealthy. I didn't know infiltration was quite their style.」

Lestat de Lioncourt:「How did you find me?」
JESSE:「I've been tracking your manager for days... (gesturing to her Goth outfit) Then I figured out you simply have to look the part.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Clever librarian... You should know, based on all your research, that groupies don't ever find their way out of here again.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 130
JESSE:「I'm not a groupie...」
narrator:Lestat gazes at Jesse's pulsing jugular.
 He steps closer.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Then why are you following me? What do you want?」
JESSE:「terrified, in a whisper) Are you granting wishes?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「smiles, in a whisper playing
 with her) Last wishes. What's yours?」
JESSE:「Show me what it's like to be you. That's my last wish. Grant it, Lestat.」
narrator:He stares at her, feeling some connection with this strange mortal girl. She stares at him with penetrating eyes. He again finds himself drawn to her. Tries to fight it.

Lestat de Lioncourt:「turning away) I don't have time for this.」
JESSE:「All a vampire has is time.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Maybe not.」
JESSE:「softly) Right. The covens are coming for you. (softly) I understand why you're doing it. You have to be who you are, no matter what happens.」
narrator:He turns, gazes at her.
 She steps forward.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (3)
 130
JESSE:「But how are you spending what may be your last night on Earth, Lestat? As you always have... Alone.」
narrator:Jesse takes a breath, crosses to him, stands very close, stares up into his eyes. He stares down at her, amazed, his heart pounding. He breathes in her hair, the scent of her skin.
JESSE:「Don't kill me yet. Let's spend our last nights together. Share it with me.
 Show me what it's like to be you.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You don't know what you're asking! I don't know what's in that librarian's head of yours, but it's not what you think.」

JESSE:「That's right. You don't know what's in my head, Lestat. Do you want to?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'll know when I kill you.」
JESSE:「Gee, Lestat, that's a great way to get to know someone. Here. I'll give you a preview. Coming attractions. This is what you'll find.」
narrator:She crosses to him, stands close.
JESSE:「I have this recurring dream that I'm a child and I'm living in this big house filled with vampires. And every night when I go to sleep, I wish to God the same thing... you know what that is, Lestat?」
narrator:He gazes at her.
 She leans forward.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (4)
 130
JESSE:「That I will have the dream again... Because in the dream I'm happy. And the dream is more real than my life... I don't know how, but I know you, Lestat... My life is a big mystery and you, you have the answer...」
narrator:He gazes at her, being taken in, tries to resist it. Jesse moves even closer. He stares down at her, the softness of her skin, her penetrating gaze, the heat of her body.

JESSE:「I can't go on pretending this life of mine is real. I can't live a lie... I'm just like you Lestat. We're the same...」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「softly) Are we? I seek the light.
 You seek the shadows.」
JESSE:「No. We're looking for exactly the same thing. You know it... Please. Show me.」
narrator:He stares at her. Her eyes gazing directly into his... Suddenly...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Alright!」
narrator:Jesse breaks into a smile.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「This may be painful for a mortal. You're still attached to your skin.」
JESSE:「an excited whisper) I don't care.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Close your eyes.
 Don't breathe.」

narrator:EXT. GRIFFITH PARK OBSERVATORY - NIGHT
 132
 Looking out over the observatory's ledge, Jesse can't believe what's just happened. She laughs, intoxicated by the experience.
JESSE:「Do that again!」
narrator:Lestat laughs, impressed by her bravado. Her trust. For a moment she laughs like a child. Then they look at each other deeply, feeling something. He wants to kiss her. She knows it. He turns away.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「And now for my next trick.」
narrator:Lestat pulls out a knife, quickly slices his arm open.
 Jesse gazes at his blood dripping down his arm, something stirring in her. Magically, the wound heals up. She stares, impressed.
JESSE:「Did it hurt?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Yes. For just a moment. But as the pain is more intense for us, so is ecstacy. (gazes at her) You see, we love our victims.」
JESSE:「Love?
 I thought it was the blood.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「No, although the taste is so rich and sweet. Love is the essence of the dark gift. The connection is so much more satisfying, brief as it is, than anything else.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 132
 Lestat again becomes aware of Jesse's pulsing jugular, the white flesh of her neck. He reaches out, touches her neck, strokes it. Jesse shivers under his touch, terrified, but wanting more. Lestat brushes his lips against her hair, her neck. Runs his hands down her arms. She closes her eyes, lost in the gentle rhythm of his voice.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「As you drink, you feel the heart weakening... it struggles even though there's no hope. You feel the life slipping away, the flash of those brief years. The taste of mortality you can no longer experience... and it is beautiful... (pulls away sharply) No 'relationship,' no commingling can ever reach the heights of that experience.」

narrator:But Jesse steps forward.
 Lestat turns, stares at her.
 Her eyes burn with an urge that will not be silenced. One button at a time, her fingers quivering, she opens her blouse down to her navel.
 Lestat stares as Jesse removes a long, silver hairpin from the mane of her red locks which then cascade about her shoulders. Her face remains aimed unwavering at Lestat's as she brings the hairpin down to her breast.
 With her eyes moored to his, she draws a line with the point across her breast. She inhales through clenched teeth... then settles as we see:
 The long incision go from pink to red; then the blood, like a hot spring pouring over the brim and dripping down her chest.
 Lestat staggers. Breaking their stare, he accepts her gift, lapping up the overspill and then onto the wound itself. Lestat closes her eyes... He comes up to her face, brushing his lips against her cheek. She shivers...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「groans) Your blood...」
JESSE:「murmurs) Do you like it?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 132
Lestat de Lioncourt:「losing himself) Yes...」

narrator:CLOSE ON LESTAT
 133
 He can't help himself.
 He moves to Jesse's white neck... closer... closer...
JESSE:「I'll know everything...」
narrator:But suddenly her words catch him... His head flails as he tries to stop his natural impulse. Lestat lets out a desperate cry and throws her aside. Jesse gazes at him, surprised. He looms over her, angry.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You want to know everything. You want to see what it's like. Then come! I'll show you.」

narrator:EXT. GRIFFITH PARK - NIGHT
 134
 Lestat and Jesse quietly move among the trees. Lestat stops on a dime -- senses tuned. He looks into the dark. Jesse is about to speak when Lestat raises his finger to her lips and then points at... A couple of lovers moving across the meadow. They sit on a park bench. The woman giggles drunkenly. Jesse watches and gasps as she realizes the male lover is a vampire. Lestat moves forward. Jesse gingerly follows.
 Taking his lover in his arms the vampire begins to bite her neck... Lestat looks over at Jesse who watches, fascinated and disturbed. The vampire senses another's presence -- stops and turns to reveal his vampire eyes shining in the dark. Lestat steps into the halo of a street lamp and hisses. Sensing Lestat's power, the vampire hisses and instantly -- the vampire is gone. Jesse turns to Lestat but he has disappeared, too. Spinning around again she sees... Lestat hovering over the mortal woman who is still in a swoon. Checking to see that the vampire is gone, Jesse moves closer to the bench. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 134
JESSE:「Is she alright?」
narrator:Lestat looks up to face her, revealing his blood-stained lips. Jesse reflexively looks away.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Come closer, Jesse. You want to see? You want to know?」

JESSE:「Lestat, no!」
narrator:Lestat's expression turns cold as ice -- he arches his back like a great cat and goes in for the kill. The woman's body convulses... Jesse watches in horror as... the woman's hands clutch at Lestat, her back stiffens... finally her legs relax in an obscene parody of orgasm. Jesse gasps, backs away. Lestat finishes and, wiping his mouth, approaches Jesse.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You see now? Are you ready?
 Now do you want it?!」
narrator:He gazes into her eyes, finding himself desperately wanting her to say yes. The horror, the revulsion in Jesse's face says it all.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「No.
 Of course you don't.」
narrator:She backs away from him, now terrified. Something's changed in his eyes. They are cold, blank.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Well I didn't grant your final wish. (shakes his head) It was an impossible wish to begin with. You see, I am unknowable.」
narrator:His eyes still as death, he starts moving away.
JESSE:「Lestat!
 Wait!」
narrator:Lestat turns toward her suddenly, grabs her forcefully, pulls her into his arms, gazes into her eyes.

Lestat de Lioncourt:「Good-bye, Talamascan.」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE (PRESENT)
 144
 Jesse stares into nothingness.
 Again the voice, but much gentler.
MAHARET:「Forever is a very long time.」
narrator:Jesse looks up out of her memory to see in the doorway down the end of the hall...
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 144
MAHARET:「Hello, my princess.」
JESSE:「Aunt Maharet?」
narrator:Jesse rushes to her. Stops. Stares at her aunt's glowing eyes, the strange pallor of her skin.
JESSE:「You're a...?」
MAHARET:「Yes. Oh, Jesse, I've missed you so much, but I had to keep this from you.」
narrator:Jesse stands there, soaking it in.
 Maharet takes her hands gently.
JESSE:「Oh my God, this is why... I knew I was different. I knew --」
MAHARET:「strongly) Come...」
narrator:Jesse follows Maharet to the mural of the family tree.
MAHARET:「You are the most precious of my great family...」
JESSE:「Am I...?」
MAHARET:「strongly) No. You are not. I was once mortal, too. My sister died before her child was one year old. I took care of that child, and her children, and her children's children...」
narrator:Pointing up to the huge family tree...
MAHARET:「This is our family -- my way of coping with eternity. The labyrinth of life. The family teaches me the rhythms and passions of each age.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 144
 Her finger trails down the great line to a name -- "Jessica Reeves"...
MAHARET:「You are my most prized light. You are what keeps me connected to the world of the living.」
narrator:Jesse stares at Maharet, amazed.
MAHARET:「When your parents died I took you to India to take care of you.」
JESSE:「And something happened there.」
MAHARET:「I stopped it from happening.
 And I will again.」
narrator:Maharet stands close, gazes at her.
MAHARET:「Jesse, you must stay away from Lestat. You must forget all about him.」
narrator:Jesse looks at her, surprised.
 Maharet smiles.
MAHARET:「Yes, I know about your new friend. You think you love him, but it's not as you thought it would be.」
narrator:Jesse stares at Maharet, surprised she understands so well.
JESSE:「I thought I was like him.」
MAHARET:「I know, but it is not who you are, not who you are meant to be. You have found that out now.」
narrator:Jesse sits on a stone bench, confused.
 Maharet smiles sadly, feeling Jesse's inner turmoil.

JESSE:「Lestat's all I can think about... I felt like I belonged with him. Now I know why...」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (3)
 144
 Maharet sits beside her, speaks emphatically.
MAHARET:「Jesse, you must forget about him. You must trust me...」
JESSE:「gazes up at her a long moment) I missed you so much, Aunt Maharet.」
MAHARET:「Me too.」
narrator:Just then the gloom of the pre-dawn's light begins to illuminate the windows of the great hall.
MAHARET:「You will go home to London in the morning.」
narrator:Jesse holds Maharet's eyes.
JESSE:「But this is my home. This is where I belong. Why do you want to get rid of me so quickly?」
narrator:Maharet touches her face gently.
MAHARET:「Now is not the time to be here...」
narrator:The light is getting brighter.
 Maharet stands.
MAHARET:「You were seeking answers. Now you have found them. The family is who you are.」
narrator:Maharet goes to Jesse, wraps her arms tight around Jesse. Despite the coldness of her skin, Jesse warms to the embrace, closes her eyes, holds her tight. Then, beaten by the sun, Maharet stands, exits into the shadows, turns back to Jesse, gazes at her.
MAHARET:「You will go home to London tomorrow.」
narrator:INT. LESTAT'S ROOM - NIGHT
 145
 Lestat stands by his bed, playing the ancient violin... a long mournful note. He stops a moment, lost in his thoughts. A flash of the first morning light reflects off the ancient wood. Lestat puts the violin away. A tear of blood trickles down his cheek. His face is filled with sadness at what will never be. A word escapes from his lips.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「whisper) Jesse.」

narrator:INT. BACKSTAGE - NIGHT
 159
 Lestat emerges from his honey-wagon, splendid in his concert costume. He looks ready for business, whatever may happen. The band look at each other, then look to Lestat. This is the moment. He smiles like a father at them. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 159
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Come on, children.」

narrator:BACK IN CROWD
 164
 BOOM, the torches relight and an enormous CHORD surges through the crowd louder than a jet on takeoff. The mass surges forward... The stage lights up in a huge halo of blood-red light. The band plays a hypnotic tune that would put the devil in a spell, as... We wait for Lestat. The band keeps playing the pounding cadence, as...
 The audience doesn't see Lestat anywhere and cheers over the sound, and it seems as if the whole of Death Valley is shaking, when... Lestat appears above the stage, inhumanly levitating and...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I'm so glad I decided to rise... (shouting) After tonight, Death Valley will live up to its name!」

narrator:LESTAT'S POV
 167
 The vampires move through the crowd. Goth girls in the front row, weeping... Maudy, James and Alex off in the clouds, playing the best music of their lives. The place has gone wild, living off its own energy now as waves of sound bounce through the valley band up into the night sky.
 BACK TO SCENE
 168
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You want more?!」
narrator:The crowd screams...
 CROWD Yes!
Lestat de Lioncourt:「This one's for those who've come for me!」

narrator:BACK TO STAGE
 174
 Assassins corner Lestat and Marius -- blades, broken bottles reflecting the spotlight. Lestat raises his arms for the crowd. The crowd jeers. Lestat looks to Maudy and the band.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Get out of here!」

narrator:EXT. DEATH VALLEY PEAK - NIGHT
 180
 Lestat opens his eyes and finds himself high above the desert, the tiny lights of the concert far below.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 180
 Lestat whirls around to suddenly see behind him Akasha in an extravagant Egyptian robe, its sheer cloth of gold draping her godly form. Lestat is awestruck. Akasha comes to life...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Akasha...」
narrator:Akasha still says nothing -- she advances with a luscious, curling smile.
AKASHA:「Why so surprised, my love?
 You called, and I have come.」
narrator:Lestat is awestruck. There is such an unearthly power in Akasha's voice. Everything seems to hum and vibrate with her breath.
AKASHA:「Never fear me, Lestat. Your wishes have all come true.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「My wishes...?」
AKASHA:「You have yearned for a companion to share eternity. You have cried out to the world. I have answered your call.」
narrator:Akasha spreads her arms, moving ever closer to Lestat.

AKASHA:「You are so bold, like your music. It woke me. You live your life in the open, like I did long ago, when I had a King.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Had a King?」
AKASHA:「He's no more. You are my consort. I've kept you safe -- alive.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 180
AKASHA:「You thought it was all you? (laughing) You have the ego of a king as well. I know you, Lestat. I know that you crave to have the world at your feet. I have come to give it to you.」
narrator:Akasha bites her own lip. Blood trickles slightly across her chin. Lestat stares at the blood, yearns towards it, as the pulse of her blood increases... Lestat looks at it, both wanting and fearful. Wrapping her arms around Lestat, she braces him, licks his face.
AKASHA:「Has your tongue lost its taste for blood?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「melting) Never.」

narrator:FLASH CUTS - STOCK FOOTAGE
 181
 All INTERCUT WITH Akasha's skin, her body taut and arching. Lestat falls back in ecstasy. He shakes out his body and lets out a howl of pleasure -- feels his arms, his chest, his groin as Akasha's blood courses through his veins. Akasha watches and waits. Finally Lestat grins boyishly through bloody teeth and wipes his lips with the back of his hand.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Can we try that again?」
narrator:Akasha smiles at him, then laughs a strange laugh, a kind of purr/growl. Lestat gazes at her as the sensual hissing seems to surround him. It is seductive and scary. Lestat steps up, puts a finger to her lips.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Show me the world...」

narrator:EXT. AKASHA'S PLANTATION VILLA - NIGHT
 184
 Lestat and Akasha stand on a cliff-top. WIND rips through the trees. Everywhere, there are torches, and a million candles light the vast house. Lestat and Akasha glide past the forest of exotic flowers... Past the fountains and statues -- up the steps to the open French doors. Long white curtains billow in the sea wind.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Where are we?」
AKASHA:「We are home.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「You live here?」

narrator:INT. AKASHA'S PLANTATION VILLA - NIGHT
 185
 Lestat steps in through billowing curtains, stops... There are three West Indian girls, young, voluptuous, beautiful, dressed in simple working clothes and traditional head-wraps. They stare at Lestat, nervous, yet fascinated. They move towards him. Lestat finds himself surrounded by hands, touching him, reaching beneath his shirt, pulling his clothes from his body. He swoons, closes his eyes, smiles.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「So warm... (sniffs their skin) ... their blood...」
AKASHA:「yes...」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「they're mortal...」

narrator:EXT. BEACH - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 192
 out the French windows onto the beach, bodies of servants and villagers are scattered. Lestat's feet step down the wooden stairs, onto the sand, through the bodies...
 Lestat, shielding his eyes, stares up in horror at the pink sky.
AKASHA:「Behold our Kingdom.」
narrator:Lestat sees Akasha standing further down on the beach.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Why?」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 192
AKASHA:「puzzled) Why not?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「This is the reason you have risen?」

narrator:INT. MAHARET'S MANSION - GRANDE HALL - NIGHT
 193
 The Ancients are still debating. Suddenly, the whole place begins to shake. (NOTE: Practical shadows not C.G.I.) A shadow passes over the Ancients' faces.
MARIUS:「She comes...」
narrator:The WINDOWS along one side of the hall EXPLODE with a startling GUST. The Ancient Ones look up to see... Akasha's silhouette looming, dark and foreboding.
AKASHA:「My children. It warms my blood to see you all gathered... plotting against me.」
narrator:They trade glances and begin to fan out around the room.
MAHARET:「Akasha.」
AKASHA:「Maharet. You will address my King first...」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 193
 Lestat enters, his possessed eyes showing only evil now. Unable to help herself...
JESSE:「Lestat!」
narrator:He turns slowly to the corner where she sits.
 They lock eyes. Lestat's face stares cold and hard.
JESSE:「What has she done to you?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Made me see.」

narrator:Taking his arm, Akasha draws Lestat to her. The Ancient Vampires subtly position themselves under the medieval weapons hanging on the walls, as Marius moves toward his son.
MARIUS:「Lestat... step aside.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Never.
 She is my Queen.」
narrator:Marius looks for some recognition in Lestat's eyes. There is none. Maharet turns to Akasha.
MAHARET:「Akasha. The world has changed since you reigned.」
AKASHA:「Then we shall change it back. Humans are animals, brute creatures. Their destruction can only make sense.」
MAHARET:「We've found other ways to co- exist.」
AKASHA:「Yes. In the shadows. In silence. In shame. For what? For respect of mortals? They are nothing to us. They are only... food.」
narrator:She casts a dangerous eye towards Jesse. Maharet instinctively moves forward to protect her.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 193
AKASHA:「Poor Maharet. Still trying to hold onto what I took from you.」
narrator:Maharet doesn't even flinch.
MARIUS:「Akasha, please...」

AKASHA:「venomous) You think you can change my will? I'm tired of this discussion. Join me, or die.」
MAHARET:「I will not.」
MARIUS:「I will not.」
AKASHA:「I want to hear it from every one of you. What will it be?」
narrator:Akasha scans the faces of the other Ancient Ones, staring deep into their souls. Akasha sees Khayman glance at the family tree. Akasha's eyes blaze with anger.
AKASHA:「Don't tell me, you have feelings for these ridiculous mortals!」
narrator:She crosses to the family tree, traces the names down to one. Jessica Reeves. Akasha is beyond fury, yet she keeps her temper under control and turns to Lestat.
AKASHA:「Do you love me?」
narrator:Smiling, she bites her lip, letting a drop of blood glisten there, tempting Lestat.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Yes...」
narrator:He draws closer. Jesse stares, mortified. Akasha and Lestat's mouths almost meet when Akasha pulls away. Akasha slowly turns to Jesse.
AKASHA:「Prove it. Kill her.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (3)
 193

Lestat de Lioncourt:「She's nothing to me.」

narrator:She reaches up, pulls aside her shirt, revealing the top of her breast. A thin, red scar remains from where she cut herself with the silver stick from the Chinese barrette.
 Lestat gazes at her, begins to advance. Jesse keeps her gaze steady into Lestat's, risking everything.
AKASHA:「smirking) How sweet...」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (4)
 193
 Lestat moves closer and closer to her, gazes into her eyes, hesitates for a moment, then continues on...
 Jesse watches him with absolute love. He reaches her. Maharet flies across the room, but Akasha meets her halfway. Grabs her by the hair. Maharet struggles but Akasha is much more powerful. Jesse offers up her neck to his bite. Maharet looks away and Akasha looks pleased as...
 Lestat sinks his teeth into Jesse's neck. Jesse gasps with the bite, but puts her arm around Lestat as he draws her into him, draining her of her very life-force as she holds him.
 With that Maharet's great family mural begins to weep blood from every name. All the Ancients turn, stare at the mural as...
 Lestat drinks and drinks and Jesse sighs with intimacy, clutching his neck and back, and drawing his bite deeper into her flesh. She slowly crumples to the floor, being drawn down until finally...
 Jesse lies on the floor, eyes closed and pale.
 Dead.
AKASHA:「Good-bye, great family.」
narrator:She turns to the MURAL with a fierce gaze. Flash! It EXPLODES, CRUMBLING to a million pieces on the ground. Maharet stares in horror.
AKASHA:「Now, my children, remember your real family! Or else.」
narrator:She turns to them with a killing smile.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「But, My Queen, you've forgotten my reward!」

narrator:She turns to him.
AKASHA:「That's right. My King, you've just earned your crown.」
narrator:Lestat smiles with a blood-stained mouth. Akasha approaches Lestat and offers him her vein. She looks scornfully at the others as he cradles her wrist...
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (5)
 193
AKASHA:「You see how he obeys.
 You will or you will all die!」
narrator:Lestat looks once at Marius, then sinks his teeth into its original font. He drinks as Akasha gasps with pleasure at giving so much pleasure to him. She keeps smiling to the others. But Lestat doesn't stop drinking. Akasha looks back to him, her face changing.
AKASHA:「That's enough, Lestat.」
narrator:Still Lestat doesn't stop.
AKASHA:「Lestat.
 Enough.
 Stop!」
narrator:NOTE: Scene as scripted here is quite different from what was analyzed in boards. Notable potential expense or savings indicated with brackets. [])
 But Lestat clamps down even harder.
 Akasha thrashes, trying to release herself.
 Maharet and Marius realize what he's doing, see the chance Lestat has gained for them. A silent signal passes between them as...
 The Ancients make an instantaneous decision. Akasha looks up, gasping, in time to see Maharet, Marius, Khayman, Armand, Mael, Pandora flying towards her. Akasha lets out a hiss...
 Most of the Ancients are thrown to the ground while Mael ignites in mid-air. Mael's skin bubbles. He screams, the veins in his face rise up and explode as if his blood were burning acid...
 Pandora too bursts into flames.
 She falls to the ground.
 But Lestat, strong with Akasha's blood, keeps his hold and Khayman, Armand, Marius, Maharet fly at her again. They swarm over Akasha. She rises into the air, thrashing about, but they hang on, forming a flying mass of flailing limbs.
 The THUMP of Akasha's HEART ACCELERATES as they try to drain her...
 Akasha turns on [Khayman to incinerate him. Flash. He screams as his blood boils, exploding out of his fingertips -- But he doesn't ignite... His wounds quickly heal. He moves in for another attack...]
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (6)
 193
 The Ancients are still flung around by Akasha's great strength, but they all hold on, as the thrashing finally begins to subside. The mass of bodies sinks to the ground. The Ancients pull back to reveal that...
 Akasha's skin is deathly blue white.
 In horror, she manages to spit out her words.
AKASHA:「You kill me, you kill yourselves.」

narrator:The Ancient Ones look to each other, uncertain a moment.
 Akasha gazes at them, then turns slowly, fixes her gaze on Lestat. He gazes back at her.
 Suddenly, Akasha takes her chance, rises, her eyes flare green, marshalling the last of her wrath. Lestat cries out in agony as smoke rises from his limbs.
 Fiercely determined, Lestat bites into Akasha's throat, this time for the kill. Akasha sinks her nails into his throat. He hangs on, his teeth deep. They are locked in mortal combat. Akasha slowly sinks to the ground, real fear in her eyes as her strength finally vanishes.
MAHARET:「Wait, Lestat! You must stop!」
narrator:Lestat pulls away, leaving Akasha hanging in a twisted, unnatural angle.
 They all stare waiting to see what will happen...
 Maharet moves quickly. She strides over to Akasha and sinks her fangs into Akasha's neck. Akasha struggles but this time she cannot even rise up. Maharet does not stop. A HOWLING sound as if from hell fills the room.
 The Ancient Ones stare at Akasha, step back in awe. Lestat sits up, burned but still alive to see...
 Akasha's skin begins to grow horribly pale, to harden and cake into a chalk. There's no blood left to flow from the gaping holes in Akasha's flesh. She slowly begins to transform back to her frozen statue state. Her skin returning to MARBLE. CRACKS multiply, becoming fissures. Finally, Akasha literally falls to pieces, SMASHING on the stone floor like porcelain.
 A silent moment. The Ancient Ones look at each other, astonished, as they realize they're still "alive."
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (7)
 193
KHAYMAN:「whisper) We survived!」
narrator:The Ancients let out relieved hisses.
 But Lestat is only concerned about Jesse. He rushes to her, picks up her lifeless head, takes a dagger from the floor and slices his wrist. He brings the open vein to Jesse's mouth, but she's not moving. Lestat bends down to her ear and whispers.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I left you one drop, my love. Drink deep and live.」

narrator:Jesse's lips slightly move and quiver as she tastes the blood. She begins to take the blood inside her and then finally truly drink and revive as Lestat cradles her. She pulls away, gasping. Lestat looks into her eyes.
JESSE:「I thought I'd lost you...」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Drink, my love.」
narrator:Her lips move to his wrist. Lestat strokes her hair, soothes her. Jesse gasps as pain courses through her. Lestat holds her close. She looks up at him, their eyes are locked together.
Lestat de Lioncourt:「I will never leave you again.」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 198
 Talbot looks up to see Jesse and Lestat looking over his shoulder. He leaps out of his seat. Sees the change in her instantly.
TALBOT:「Jesse.
 My God...」
JESSE:「smiles) David, this is Lestat.」
narrator:He looks at Lestat, fear in his eyes.
TALBOT:「How do you do?」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Charmed, I'm sure.」
JESSE:「I told you I'd return with my findings. Here they are.」
narrator:David stares, shaken.
TALBOT:「But please, sit down. You'll have to excuse me... it's just so... so...」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Unexpected?」
TALBOT:「Strangely, no...」
narrator:David looks sadly at Jesse.
JESSE:「Please don't be sad. I'm where I belong. I'm happy now.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 198
 Lestat, content for the first time since we've known him, looks lovingly to Jesse. A flicker of curiosity crosses David's face.
TALBOT:「Excuse me for asking but...」

JESSE:「smiles) What's it like?」
TALBOT:「Yes.」
JESSE:「Do you want to find out?」
TALBOT:「Me?... No. I'm too old to live forever.」
JESSE:「Well, if you ever should change your mind... Oh. I have a present for you. From an old friend.」
narrator:She hands Talbot a canvas. It's a painting. He stares at it. The painting shows Lestat's concert. And in the crowd, Talbot finds Marius, now looking straight out at the viewer, a smile on his lips. Talbot sees standing beside Marius is Talbot himself, dancing with a young, pretty Goth. Talbot smiles.
JESSE:「And Marius sent a message. You were right. He doesn't go to the Dorchester. But he's gonna be at Claridge's later...」
narrator:Talbot stares at them.
JESSE:「Well, I guess this is good-bye.」
TALBOT:「Yes.
 Take care of her, Lestat.」
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Always.」

narrator:EXT. LONDON STREET - NIGHT
 199
 Jesse and Lestat come out of the Talamascan headquarters.
 He takes her hand and together they float up over the wall and out to the street. Lestat pulls Jesse into his arms.
 They kiss. It's long, deep, romantic. They pull away, gaze sweetly, lovingly, into each other's eyes...
 And exchange happy, fanged smiles...
Lestat de Lioncourt:「Shall we go get a drink, love?」
