Ginny:「No, Luna will take Harry, won’t you, Luna?」
Luna:「Oooh, yes, I’d like to.」


Hermione:「It can’t be, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream,」
:Hermione action
Luna:「You know what could be in there?」


Hermione:「I’m not staying behind!」
Luna:「There’s no need. Look, here come more now. . . . You two must really smell . . .」


Harry:「Hello. How come you’re not at the feast?」
Luna:「Well, I’ve lost most of my possessions, People take them and hide them, you know. But as it’s the last night, I really do need them back, so I’ve been putting up signs.」
Harry:「How come people hide your stuff?」
Luna:「Oh . . . well . . . I think they think I’m a bit odd, you know. Some people call me ‘Loony’ Lovegood, actually.」
Harry:「Just didn’t feel like it.」
Luna:「No, I don’t suppose you do. That man the Death Eaters killed was your godfather, wasn’t he? Ginny told me.」
Harry:「I’m sorry.」
Luna:「Yes, it was rather horrible, I still feel very sad about it sometimes. But I’ve still got Dad. And anyway, it’s not as though I’ll never see Mum again, is it?」
Harry:「You mean . . .」
Luna:「In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of sight, that’s all. You heard them.」


Harry:「What?」
Luna:「Yes, he’s got an army of heliopaths.」
Hermione:「No, he hasn’t.」
Luna:「Yes, he has.」
Hermione:「They don’t exist, Neville.」
Luna:「Oh yes they do!」


Hermione:「“Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly, before Harry could answer, “The Quibbler’s rubbish, everyone knows that.”」
Luna:「Excuse me, My father’s the editor.」
Hermione:「I — oh, Well . . . it’s got some interesting . . . I mean, it’s quite . . .」
Luna:「I’ll have it back, thank you.」


Harry:「Hi, Shall we get going then?」
Luna:「Oh yes, Where is the party?」
Harry:「Slughorn’s office,」
Luna:「Rufus Scrimgeour?」


:Harry action
Luna:「“We should close his eyes.”」
:Bill action
:Hermione action
:Luna action
:Harry action
Luna:「“I think we ought to say something,” piped up Luna. “I’ll go first, shall I?”」


Slughorn:「And a great one you’ll make too!」
Luna:「I don’t think you should be an Auror, Harry. The Aurors are part of the Rotfang Conspiracy, I thought everyone knew that. They’re working to bring down the Ministry of Magic from within using a combination of Dark Magic and gum disease.」


Hermione:「they can’t contradict you, because they can’t admit they’ve read the article!」
Luna:「told him over dinner that no copy of The Quibbler had ever sold out faster. “Dad’s reprinting!” she told Harry, her eyes popping excitedly. “He can’t believe it, he says people seem even more interested in this than the Crumple-Horned Snorkacks!”」


Neville:「Hello, Harry,」
Luna:「Very well, thank you,」
Harry:「Quibbler still going strong, then?」
Luna:「Oh yes, circulation’s well up,」
Harry:「They’re staring at you because you were at the Ministry too. Our little adventure there was all over the Daily Prophet, you must’ve seen it.」
Neville:「Yes, I thought Gran would be angry about all the publicity, but she was really pleased. Says I’m starting to live up to my dad at long last. She bought me a new wand, look!」
:Neville pulled out wand, Cherry and unicorn hair, one of the last Ollivander ever sold
Neville:「oi, come back here, Trevor!」
Luna:「Are we still doing D.A. meetings this year, Harry?」
Luna:「I enjoyed the meetings too. It was like having friends.」
Luna:「People expect you to have cooler friends than us.」


Harry:「I’m definitely not interested, and I’ve just seen a friend of mine, sorry.」
Luna:「Hello,」


Harry:「It’s all right, You’re not going mad or anything. I can see them too.」
Luna:「Can you?」
Harry:「Oh yes, I’ve been able to see them ever since my first day here. They’ve always pulled the carriages. Don’t worry. You’re just as sane as I am.」
:Luna action
Luna:「He isn’t a very good teacher, is he?」


:Harry action
Luna:「What’s happened, what’s happened?」


Harry:「All right, Okay, There’s something we need to find, Something — something that’ll help us overthrow You-Know-Who. It’s here at Hogwarts, but we don’t know where. It might have belonged to Ravenclaw. Has anyone heard of an object like that? Has anyone ever come across something with her eagle on it, for instance?」
Luna:「Well, there’s her lost diadem. I told you about it, remember, Harry? The lost diadem of Ravenclaw? Daddy’s trying to duplicate it.」


Harry:「Something happy?」
Luna:「We’re all still here, we’re still fighting. Come on, now. . . .」


Harry:「And then come back.」
:Dobby nodded
Luna:「Harry, we want to help you!」


Ron:「Chuck us another Frog.」
Narrator:Harry think "He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station was a bit of a laugh, but suddenly it seemed reckless, if not downright dangerous. . . . Hermione had been right. . . . Sirius should not have come. What if Mr. Malfoy had noticed the black dog and told Draco, what if he had deduced that the Weasleys, Lupin, Tonks, and Moody knew where Sirius was hiding? Or had Malfoy’s use of the word “dogging” been a coincidence?"
Luna:「We’d better change.」


Harry:「said "I’ll be back in a bit, Luna — er — bathroom."」
Luna:「said "All right."」


Harry:「Yeah, We’re supposed to bring guests, so I thought you might like . . . I mean . . . I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don’t want to . . . Oh, no, I’d love to go with you as friends! Nobody’s ever asked me to a party before, as a friend! Is that why you dyed your eyebrow, for the party? Should I do mine too? No, that was a mistake. I’ll get Hermione to put it right for me. So, I’ll meet you in the entrance hall at eight o’clock then.」
Luna:「Nice to keep these things private. You could’ve taken anyone! Anyone! And you chose Loony Lovegood? I’m really glad you’re taking her, Harry, she’s so excited.」


Hermione:「‘You-Know-Who’s Last Attempt to Take Over, pages two to four, What the Ministry Should Have Told Us, page five, Why Nobody Listened to Albus Dumbledore, pages six to eight, Exclusive Interview with Harry Potter, page nine . . .’ Well, it’s certainly given them lots to write about. And that interview with Harry isn’t exclusive, it’s the one that was in The Quibbler months ago . . .」
Luna:「Daddy sold it to them. He got a very good price for it too, so we’re going to go on an expedition to Sweden this summer and see if we can catch a Crumple-Horned Snorkack.」


Ollivander:「looked exceptionally frail」
:Ollivander action
Luna:「approached Mr. Ollivander and said, "I’m going to miss you, Mr. Ollivander."」


Harry:「I just don’t want my Quidditch team messed up again!」
Luna:「I went to the hospital wing to find you, But they said you’d left. . . . I’ve been told to give you this.」
Harry:「Tonight」
Ron:「Nice commentary last match!」
Luna:「You’re making fun of me, aren’t you? Everyone says I was dreadful.」


Harry:「Sorry — I —」
Luna:「Wrackspurt got you?」
Harry:「what?」
Luna:「A Wrackspurt . . . They’re invisible. They float in through your ears and make your brain go fuzzy. I thought I felt one zooming around in here.」


Hermione:「Some people won’t. But the Daily Prophet’s version of the Azkaban breakout had some gaping holes in it. I think a lot of people will be wondering whether there isn’t a better explanation of what happened, and if there’s an alternative story available, even if it is published in a — well, an unusual magazine — I think they might be rather keen to read it.」
Rita:「All right, let’s say for a moment I’ll do it. What kind of fee am I going to get?」
Luna:「I don’t think Daddy exactly pays people to write for the magazine. They do it because it’s an honor, and, of course, to see their names in print.」


Ron:「I’ll make Goyle do lines, it’ll kill him, he hates writing,」
Luna:「Yeah, I know I did,」
Luna:「She didn’t enjoy it very much,」


Harry:「」
Luna:「Good evening, my dear, I haven’t seen you in my classes lately. . . .」
Luna:「No, I’ve got Firenze this year,」


Hermione:「Fire away, then, Rita.」
:Hermione action
Luna:「she did not know how soon Rita’s interview with Harry would appear in The Quibbler, her father was expecting a lovely long article on recent sightings of Crumple-Horned Snorkacks」


Harry:「Can I have a look at this?」
Luna:「She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with laughter.」


Hermione:「So the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they want to hear, does it?」
Rita:「The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl.」
Luna:「My dad thinks it’s an awful paper, He publishes important stories that he thinks the public needs to know. He doesn’t care about making money.」
Rita:「I’m guessing your father runs some stupid little village newsletter? ‘Twenty-five Ways to Mingle with Muggles’ and the dates of the next Bring-and-Fly Sale?」
Luna:「No, he’s the editor of The Quibbler.」


Fleur:「Ah, she eez charmante, your aunt.」
Luna:「Daddy’s made a tiara. Well, more of a crown, really.」


Harry:「Oh, hello, Harry, Did you know one of your eyebrows is bright yellow?」
Luna:「Hi, Luna. Hermione, you left your stuff. . . .」
Hermione:「Oh yes, thank you, Harry. Well, I’d better get going. . . .」
Luna:「She’s a bit upset, I thought at first it was Moaning Myrtle in there, but it turned out to be Hermione. She said something about that Ron Weasley. . . .」
Harry:「So have you had a good term?」
Luna:「Oh, it’s been all right, a bit lonely without the D.A. Ginny’s been nice, though. She stopped two boys in our Transfiguration class calling me ‘Loony’ the other day —」


Harry:「Yes, all right, but Ron, the stone . . .」
Luna:「Harry, what are you doing? I don’t think you should look around when he’s not here!」
:Harry action
Luna:「Harry, what are you doing? I don’t think you should look around when he’s not here!」


Harry:「Come on, this way.」
:Harry crept off
:Harry action
Luna:「This way, Harry,」
:Luna plucking his sleeve and pulling him toward a spiral staircase
:Harry There was no handle and no keyhole: nothing but a plain expanse of aged wood, and a bronze knocker in the shape of an eagle
:Luna reached out a pale hand
Luna:「Hmm . . . What do you think, Harry?」
Harry:「What if you get it wrong?」
Luna:「Well, you have to wait for somebody who gets it right,」


Harry:「Er — my name’s Barny,」
Luna:「Hello, Harry!」
Xenophilius Lovegood:「How wonderful! Gnome saliva is enormously beneficial!」
Luna:「Ron can laugh, but my father has done a lot of research on Gernumbli magic.」


Ginny:「Four, Hermione.」
Luna:「I think there are six of us, actually.」


Harry:「Well, you can’t.」
Luna:「You’re being rather rude, you know.」


Hermione:「」
Luna:「」


Hermione:「Well, that’s a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams if you’re not a bit nervous.」
Luna:「I’m supporting Gryffindor. Look what it does . . .」
:- action
Luna:「It’s good, isn’t it? I wanted to have it chewing up a serpent to represent Slytherin, you know, but there wasn’t time. Anyway . . . good luck, Ronald!」


Harry:「Look,」
Luna:「I sent for her, I promised her and Ginny that if you turned up I’d let them know. We all thought that if you came back, it would mean revolution. That we were going to overthrow Snape and the Carrows」
Luna:「Isn’t it, Harry? We’re going to fight them out of Hogwarts?」


Harry:「said, "We’ll be off your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We won’t need to be here much longer."」
Luna:「said, "and tiny little ears, a bit like a hippo’s, Daddy says, only purple and hairy. And if you want to call them, you have to hum; they prefer a waltz, nothing too fast."」
:Dean action
Luna:「said, "and if you ever come to our house I’ll be able to show you the horn, Daddy wrote to me about it but I haven’t seen it yet, because the Death Eaters took me from the Hogwarts Express and I never got home for Christmas."」


:Harry action
Luna:「It’s good, isn’t it? It came out yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a free copy. I expect all these are letters from readers.」


Hermione:「Careful! Let’s go, okay? This isn’t right, Harry, come on, let’s go . . . Let’s go, okay? Harry, let’s go, okay? Harry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius! That’s what I’ve been trying to — well, come on, then!」
Luna:「There are people in there!」


Ginny:「Had a good summer, Luna?」
Luna:「Yes, Yes, it was quite enjoyable, you know. You’re Harry Potter,」
Harry:「I know I am,」
:Neville chuckled
:Luna turned her pale eyes upon him instead
Ginny:「No you’re not, Neville Longbottom — Luna Lovegood. Luna’s in my year, but in Ravenclaw,」
Luna:「Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure,」


Ginny:「Hi,」
Luna:「I believe He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back, and I believe you fought him and escaped from him.」
Hermione:「Well, they were right, weren’t they? There weren’t any such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack.」
Luna:「But people used to believe there were no such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned Snorkack!」


Harry:「HERMIONE! HERMIONE!」
Luna:「Harry? Ron? Is that you?」
Harry:「Luna, can you help us get these ropes off?」
Luna:「Oh yes, I expect so. . . . There’s an old nail we use if we need to break anything. . . . Just a moment . . .」
Hermione:「You’ll need to stay still,」
Hermione:「We found it — we found it — PLEASE!」
Ron:「Ron, please stay still!」
Luna:「My pocket! In my pocket, there’s a Deluminator, and it’s full of light!」


