narrator:We see that he is lying in an old fashioned, wooden coffin. Nothing more than a few rotted-out planks of wood nailed together. Realizing the same, Paul is struck by an overwhelming, instant panic. With great difficulty, and while still holding the lit Zippo, Paul removes the muzzle from his mouth.
Paul Conroy:「What...? What is this? His words become almost unintelligible as he flails about, though fear is understood in his every utterance. He screams aloud, but his voice is captured by the coffin walls.」

Paul Conroy:「Oh my God! Help me!! Help me!! He kicks and slams his hands against the top and sides of the coffin, all to no avail. His violent movements cause small grains of sand to trickle in through the space between the sides and top of the coffin, as well as a small gap that exists between one of the coffin's broken wooden planks. Sweat cascades down the side of his neck, dripping from his dampened brow. The heat inside the extremely close confines of the coffin is stifling.
 Somebody help me! Please!! Paul continues with his futile efforts to pry off the top of the coffin. The sides, the top, the bottom -- all are too thoroughly reinforced by the force of what surrounds the coffin. Sand. It becomes clear to him that he is buried. He tries his best to calm himself, though he has trouble catching his breath. It takes him some time, but he eventually achieves some semblance of calm. Getting a good look at him for the first time, we see that Paul is somewhere around 37 years old. Unshaven and physically unremarkable, he embodies the blue-collar American everyman. He coughs. The minimal amount of oxygen in the coffin makes it hard for him to breathe. His eyes widen a bit upon seeing an exposed, rusty nail. He tries desperately to use the nail to cut through the old, frayed ropes that bind his hands. Doing so is no easy task. The incredibly tight quarters makes his every action nearly impossible. After a lengthy struggle, the rope snaps. Paul quickly frees his hands. A small victory. Very small. The heat is unbearable. Paul takes off his button-down shirt, leaving him in a T-shirt. His body battles against the walls and the ceiling of the coffin with every move he makes. He tosses his button-down shirt down by his feet. His undershirt is drenched through with sweat. Still trying to calm himself, but having little success in doing so, Paul looks around the coffin. His feet, though only his body-length away, seem miles from him.」

Paul Conroy:「What is this? With his sobbing slowly subsiding, the coffin soon grows eerily silent. The sound of Paul's labored breaths are all we hear, softened under the blanket of absolute darkness. After a beat, the silence is interrupted by a subtle buzzing sound. The muted sight of strange, blueish light flickers in the coffin, by Paul's feet. He is extremely startled. The buzzing continues, as does the minimal splashing of light. It's coming from underneath his discarded button-down shirt, down near his feet. He lights the Zippo to get a better look.」

narrator:We see that there is a Text Message waiting for Paul on the phone. However, Paul barely notices. The time on the phone reads 6:12pm. While the numbers and display screen icons are familiar to Americans, all the words are in Arabic. What he does notices is that the phone barely has one bar of signal strength. Worse yet, there is only half of the battery life remaining. He tries to remember the Safe Number he was given. With the phone open and ready to be dialed, Paul struggles to recall the information.
Paul Conroy:「Come on, come on. What was it?」

narrator:Getting only two digits into dialing the number, he cannot remember much more and closes the phone. He wedges the lit Zippo into sand, which is compacted against a small hole in the wall of the coffin. Paul reaches into his pants pocket, frantically searching for something. He hastily removes a prescription pill bottle and a small, metal flask. Both are not what he was looking for. He then reaches to his back pocket and removes his wallet. It's empty. His license, his credit cards, his cash and, most importantly at that very moment, a piece of paper with the Safe Number written on it, are all missing.
Paul Conroy:「No. Where the hell is it? Son of a...Come on!」

narrator:He screams aloud again, hoping greatly that someone can hear him. His frenzied maneuvering puts out the flame of the Zippo.
Paul Conroy:「Help me! Please! Somebody help me! His words barely make it pass the coffin walls. With the cell phone still in hand, and laboring to reclaim the breath he just expended, Paul turns to desperation. He dials the international code of 001, and then dials 911. A FEMALE 911 OPERATOR answers almost immediately.」

FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「please hold. The Female 911 Operator places Paul on hold.」
Paul Conroy:「No! Wait! Paul accidentally bangs the cap of the Zippo against the coffin wall, putting out the flame. She quickly returns.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「What is your emergency?」
Paul Conroy:「Hello?」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「What's the problem, sir? Paul is so incredibly panicked that he has trouble remaining coherent. After a few sparks, the Zippo is re-lit.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm buried. You have to help me. You have to help me, I can't breathe...」
narrator:FEMALE 911 OPERATOR
 SIR --
Paul Conroy:「I'm buried in a coffin. Please help me! Send someone to find me...」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「Sir...slow down. What is your name?」
Paul Conroy:「Paul. Paul Conroy.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「Okay, Mister Conroy. Can you tell me your location?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know. I'm in a coffin. I don't know where. I'm scared. Please help me.」

FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「You're in a coffin?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah, it's, like, one of those old, wooden ones.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「Are you at a funeral home?」
Paul Conroy:「No. I don't know. No.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「How are calling me right now?」
Paul Conroy:「What?」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「If you're buried in a coffin, where are you calling from?」
Paul Conroy:「A cell phone. There was an old cell phone in the coffin.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「You're calling from your cell phone?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. No. It's not mine, but yes, I'm calling from a cell phone.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「There was a cell phone in the coffin when you climbed in?」
Paul Conroy:「I didn't climb in.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「How did you end up in the coffin, sir?」
Paul Conroy:「I was put here.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「In the coffin?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. Please send help.」

FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「And you're saying the coffin is buried?」
Paul Conroy:「I think so. It's...it's hot in here. I can't breathe.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「Do you know your location, sir?」
Paul Conroy:「I told you, I don't know. Somewhere in Iraq.」

Paul Conroy:「Yes. I'm a truck driver, an American. I work for CRT.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「Are you a soldier, sir?」
Paul Conroy:「No. Please, please listen to me. I'm a truck driver. I work for CRT. I'm a civilian contractor working in Iraq. We were attacked in Baqubah, they...they...」

Paul Conroy:「All of the other drivers.」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「And you're saying this happened in Iraq? The country?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. Please, you have to help me. They gave me a safety number to call, but I had it stored in my wallet and --」

Paul Conroy:「Ohio?」
FEMALE 911 OPERATOR:「Yes, sir. I'm not sure exactly how you called here if you're in another country, but if you'd like, I can patch you through to the Sheriff's Department.」
Paul Conroy:「Sheriff's Department? No...you don't underst...」
narrator:GIVING UP) ...forget it. Realizing that his conversation is both lengthy and useless, Paul ends the call. He checks the battery life on the phone. It still holds steady at two bars. He immediately dials another number, one that he can recall with ease. He again enters the 001 international code before making the call. Paul then dials his home phone. It rings several times, so far unanswered.
Paul Conroy:「Come on, come on. Pick up. Please. After sitting through the agony of a few more rings, Paul is met with the answering machine.」

narrator:The voice of his young son, SHANE, is heard on the answering machine greeting.
 SHANE Thanks for calling the Conroy's. We're not home right now. Please leave a message at the beep. Thanks. At the sound of the Beep, Paul leaves a frenzied, rambling message.
Paul Conroy:「Linda, honey, it's me. Listen, I need you to contact the National Guard right away. Or the Pentagon. Tell them we were attacked in the Diyala Provence, in Baqubah.」
narrator:MORE)
Paul Conroy:「They have to find me. Please help me, baby. Please help them find me. Paul hangs up. He dials his wife's cell phone right away. After several rings, her cell phone voice mail picks up. We hear the sound of Linda, Paul's wife, on her outgoing message.」

Paul Conroy:「Linda, it's Paul. I need you to call me right away. This is an absolute emergency. Call the number that comes up on your phone. Call me at that number. If I don't answer, call the Pentagon or the F.B.I. I don't know what the hell is going on, but I'm buried in a box... Hearing himself say those last words gives him pause. The gravity of the situation fully takes hold.
 ...I can't breathe in here. Make sure you call me right away. Please, baby, please call me.」

narrator:He flips open the cell phone. The light of the display screen partially illuminates his face and some of the coffin with a blueish hue. Paul again enters the overseas dialing code, this time dialing 411 information. The 411 OPERATOR answers.
 OPERATOR What city and state, please?
Paul Conroy:「Um...I don't know. The F.B.I., wherever they are. Paul reaches for his button-down shirt. Fishes for pens stashed in his lapel pocket, while keeping the phone pressed to his ear with his shoulder.」

narrator:OPERATOR Do you have a specific city you'd like to be connected to, sir?
Paul Conroy:「I don't care, any city. Just connect me to the F.B.I.」
narrator:OPERATOR Sir, I have F.B.I. field offices listed in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, New Haven, Los Angeles, Chicago, Denver -- Paul cannot bear to listen any further to this list that seemingly never ends.
Paul Conroy:「Anywhere! Any city, just connect me, please!」
narrator:OPERATOR I'm sorry, sir, but I'm not allowed to do that.
Paul Conroy:「Fine, um...Chicago. Okay?」

narrator:Paul writes the digits of the phone number on the top of the coffin with his pen. But, after the first three numbers, the pen stops working. He hurriedly reaches back into his shirt pocket to remove the other pen, which is actually a click-up pencil. Click-click-click-click. He writes the last seven digits, followed by the word "FBI."
 AUTOMATED MESSAGE ...can be connected for an additional charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one. He presses the number one and is connected directly. After a few rings, SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS answers.
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Chicago field office. Special Agent Harris.」
Paul Conroy:「Hello? Is this the F.B.I.?」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Yes it is, sir.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm calling from Iraq. I'm buried in the desert somewhere. I need you to help me --」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Whoa, whoa, sir. Slow down. When were you in Iraq?」
Paul Conroy:「Now. I'm there now. I'm a truck driver for CRT. I've been here for nine months.」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「May I have your name please, sir?」
Paul Conroy:「Paul Conroy.」

narrator:Paul attempts to center himself so that he can accurately tell his story.
Paul Conroy:「Alright. Me and a convoy of other drivers were delivering kitchen parts to a community center. As we got closer, a bunch of kids started throwing rocks at our trucks. Then an IED went off up ahead and blew up one of the other trucks. These guys came out from behind the houses with guns and started shooting everybody right there on the street.」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Were you shot at?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know! (after a breath, calmer) I don't know. I was way in the back of the convoy. I must have got hit in the head with one of the rocks and got knocked out. That's the last thing I remember. But now I just woke up, and I was tied up and buried in a coffin.」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Who put you there?」
Paul Conroy:「I guess whoever ambushed us.」

narrator:Special Agent Harris sounds slightly skeptical of Paul's claims.
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「A bunch of kids?」
Paul Conroy:「No, you're not listening. The kids threw the rocks at us, but then some Iraqi guys -- maybe insurgents, I don't fucking know -- popped out of nowhere and started shooting at us.」

Paul Conroy:「They didn't, I don't know! But they shot them!」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Sir, you're going to have to stop shouting if --」
Paul Conroy:「I'm shouting because you're not listening! I need you to help me! Please!!」

Paul Conroy:「Can you trace my call? GPS or something?」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Why is it that they didn't shoot you?」
Paul Conroy:「I have no idea. They didn't, that's all I know.」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「What's your social security number, Paul?」
Paul Conroy:「Why? Who cares? I'm buried in the middle of the fucking desert! Who cares what my social security number is?! I'm an American citizen. Just send someone to find me!」
SPECIAL AGENT HARRIS:「Do you know where you're ...lo...if...dy.. The cell phone starts breaking up.」
Paul Conroy:「Hello? What? I can't hear you.」

narrator:Suddenly, Special Agent Harris is not heard at all.
Paul Conroy:「Hello?! Hello?! Paul checks the phone's display, where he sees that the call has been lost.
 Shit!! Cell phone service temporarily goes down. Paul lights the Zippo to help him see the cell phone screen. He tries to make a call, but nothing happens. He shakes the phone, moves it around the coffin, all in desperate hope that he will get a signal. He soon does.」

narrator:He looks at the number for the F.B.I. that he has written on the wall, thinking about calling them back. He then checks the battery life on his phone, which remains at two bars. Paul then decides to make a different call, this time to a phone number he has committed to memory: his employer back in the U.S., Crestin, Roland and Thomas (CRT). He closes the lid of the Zippo, extinguishing the flame. After a few rings, a CRT OPERATOR answers.
CRT OPERATOR:「Thank you for calling Crestin, Roland and Thomas. How may I direct your call?」
Paul Conroy:「Somebody, I need to talk to someone right away. It's an emergency.」
CRT OPERATOR:「Who is this, please?」
Paul Conroy:「Paul Conroy. I'm a driver for you guys. I'm calling from Iraq. My convoy was attacked.」

Paul Conroy:「I know, I know, but I don't have it. They took it.」
CRT OPERATOR:「Who took it, sir?」
Paul Conroy:「The Iraqis, I think. I don't remember, I blacked out.」
CRT OPERATOR:「I'm going to put you through to Alan Davenport.」
Paul Conroy:「Davenport? Who's that?」

CRT OPERATOR:「Director of Personnel. Please hold.」
Paul Conroy:「Personnel? No, I need to talk -- Paul is placed on hold. Synthesized soft rock plays in the background of the phone, maddening Paul further. Over the music, a CRT SPOKESMAN is heard, speaking a recorded testimonial during the on-hold message.」

Paul Conroy:「This is Paul Conroy, I'm from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a driver for CRT, and my convoy was ambushed...by insurgents or terrorists. I don't know. I don't know who it was. I'm stuck in the ground, buried in a coffin and I need help. Please send help. I'm begging you. I think I'm in Baqubah in the Diyala Provence. Please send help right away. I can't breathe in here. I can't...please. I'm begging you. I don't know who else to call.」

narrator:Paul notices that his phone has again lost signal.
Paul Conroy:「」

narrator:It rings once, but then the reception begins to falter. After only two rings, the call is ended. Paul's frustration mounts. He is barely able to fight off another fit of hysterics. He dials the number again. It rings once. A second ring. In the middle of the third ring, someone answers -- but they do not say anything.
Paul Conroy:「Hello? Hello? Is anyone there? Hello? After a beat, Paul hears breathing on the other end of the phone. He also hears a discordance of background sound; the din of a room filled with Arabic-speaking men.
 Hello? Who are you? Please, you have to help me. Still, Paul's words are only met with slow, measured breaths.
 Who is this? Hello? The person on the other end eventually speaks. An Iraqi man, JABIR, talks forcefully and aggressively in broken English.」
JABIR:「Breathe no breathe, American? Ah? Breathe no breathe?」
Paul Conroy:「What? I don't know what you're saying. Who is this?」

JABIR:「American can breathe no breathe?」
Paul Conroy:「No, I can't breathe. Please get me out of here.」
JABIR:「Get out?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes, please get me out. Help me.」

Paul Conroy:「No, no I'm not a soldier. I'm a truck driver. That's it. I'm not a soldier. I'm a contractor.」
JABIR:「Contractor?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes, that's right. A contractor. Not a soldier.」
JABIR:「Blackwater.」
Paul Conroy:「No, not for Blackwater. I'm not a security contractor. Truck driver, I'm a truck driver. That's all.」
JABIR:「You are American.」
Paul Conroy:「Yes.」
JABIR:「Then you are soldier. Despair falls upon Paul. It becomes clear that Jabir is responsible for all of this. As such, Paul crosses out the word "HELP?" Closes the lid of the Zippo, leaving only the cell phone display screen to illuminate his face.」
Paul Conroy:「No, I'm not. I'm here unarmed. But, you still shot at us.」
JABIR:「In head and in throat, so you tell no more lies.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm not lying! We were all drivers.」
JABIR:「Drive what?」

Paul Conroy:「Trucks. The big trucks you see driving around with the supplies? That's us. That's me. We're not soldiers.」

JABIR:「Five million money.」
Paul Conroy:「What?」
JABIR:「Five million money tonight by nine PM or you stay. Buried like dog.」
Paul Conroy:「Five million dollars? From who?」
JABIR:「Your family.」
Paul Conroy:「My family doesn't have five million dollars. If they did, I wouldn't be here.」
JABIR:「From Embassy.」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know, yes, the Embassy will pay you. If you let me go, they'll pay you the money. Silence on the other end of the phone.」

narrator:He cannot remember the number he's thinking of. He notices that the flame of the Zippo flickers, indicating its use of his much-needed oxygen. Paul closes the lid, extinguishing the flame. A second later, we see him, lit by the cell phone display screen. He dials the international code for the United States, followed by 411 information. A MALE 411 OPERATOR answers.
 MALE 411 OPERATOR What city and listing, please?
Paul Conroy:「Hastings, Michigan. I'm looking for Donna Mitchell.」

narrator:MALE 411 OPERATOR I have two Donna Mitchells, sir. One on Federal Road and one on Ardmore Avenue.
Paul Conroy:「Ardmore Avenue...I think. Yeah. Shit, I don't know. Just give me that one.」
narrator:MALE 411 OPERATOR Ardmore Avenue?
Paul Conroy:「Yes, Ardmore Avenue.」
narrator:MALE 411 OPERATOR Please hold for your number. Paul is switched to an AUTOMATED MESSAGE.
 AUTOMATED MESSAGE The number you requested, 269-948- 1998 can automatically be dialed for a charge of twenty-five cents by pressing the number one. Paul writes Donna's number and name on the top of the coffin and then presses the number one. He is connected. Her phone rings and rings. Paul's frustration is evident.
Paul Conroy:「Come on! Where the hell is everyone?」

narrator:The phone rings some more. Paul checks the battery life -- still at one and a half bars. DONNA eventually answers.
DONNA:「Hello? Hearing her voice, Paul hurriedly places the phone to his ear.」
Paul Conroy:「Donna, it's Paul.」

Paul Conroy:「Where's Linda? She's not answering her phone. I need to talk to her, I've been taken hostage by... Donna interrupts. We realize, as does Paul, that her voice was actually coming from her answering machine.」

Paul Conroy:「Donna, I need to talk to Linda. It's an absolute emergency. Have her call me. Use star sixty-nine and find out the number I'm calling from and have her call me... Donna picks up the phone.」
DONNA:「Paul?」
Paul Conroy:「Donna.」
DONNA:「What do you want?」
Paul Conroy:「I need to talk to Linda. Where is she?」
DONNA:「I don't know. I haven't talked to her all day. Call her cell phone.」
Paul Conroy:「Are you near a computer or something?」
DONNA:「Uh...yeah. Why?」
Paul Conroy:「Turn it on.」

DONNA:「It is on.」
Paul Conroy:「Look up the number for the State Department for me.」
DONNA:「I was just heading out to the supermarket. I really don't have」
narrator:TIME --
Paul Conroy:「Donna, please, please, please -- just get me the number.」
DONNA:「Is everything alright?」
Paul Conroy:「No! Everything is not alright! So, please, just look up the number.」
DONNA:「Don't fucking yell at me, Paul.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm not yelling!」

Paul Conroy:「Donna, I'm very sorry I yelled. But, I'm only going to ask you once more to get me this number. If you don't get me this number, I'm going to die.」
DONNA:「What?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't have time to explain. Please...the number.」

DONNA:「What the hell's going -- Paul hangs up on Donna mid-sentence. He dials the number the State Department right away. A STATE DEPARTMENT REP answers after a few rings.」
STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「United States Department of State.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm an American citizen, working in Iraq. I've been taken hostage. I need to speak to someone right away.」

STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「Where are you calling from, sir?」
Paul Conroy:「From Iraq. I'm a truck driver for CRT -- Crestin, Roland and Thomas. We were attacked and now I'm being held for ransom.」
STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「Are the kidnappers with you?」
Paul Conroy:「No. I'm buried somewhere.」
STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「You're buried?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah, in a coffin, a wooden box. It's an old coffin, I think.」
STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「Did you try contacting the military out there?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't have the number.」
STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「What number?」
Paul Conroy:「I was given a number to call, a safety number. But the people took it.」

STATE DEPARTMENT REP:「The people holding you hostage?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes.」
narrator:STATE DEPARTMENT REP
 DISCONCERTED) I don't know...hold on. Let me connect you...hold on.
Paul Conroy:「No. Wait... Paul is placed on hold. As he waits, his eyes wander around the coffin. He looks at the numbers he has written.」

narrator:After a moment, REBECCA BROWNING, a State Department official, picks up the phone.
REBECCA:「Rebecca Browning.」
Paul Conroy:「Hello?」
REBECCA:「Yes, hello. I was just informed of your situation.」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah, my situation. I'm running out of time and you people keep putting me on hold. What the hell is wrong with you?」

REBECCA:「I'm sorry.」
Paul Conroy:「Don't be sorry. Just help me.」
REBECCA:「I just have a few questions for you, Mister Conroy.」
Paul Conroy:「You've got to be kidding me.」

Paul Conroy:「Wait, wait, wait...how did you know my name?」
REBECCA:「I'm sorry?」
Paul Conroy:「I never gave you my name. I don't think I gave it to the other guy, either. Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone.
 What the hell is going on right now?」

REBECCA:「after a beat) We received a call from a representative at CRT. You left him a message?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah...?」
REBECCA:「He contacted us right away.」
Paul Conroy:「Well, since you know what the hell is going on, what have you done to get me out of here?」
REBECCA:「There's little we can do from Washington.」
Paul Conroy:「So, that's it? I'm just supposed to rot in here because there's little you can do?」
REBECCA:「No.」
Paul Conroy:「Then what?」

Paul Conroy:「In the Diyala Provence. In Baqubah.」
REBECCA:「Okay. And has contact been made with the kidnappers?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. The guy told me that he wants five million dollars by nine o'clock tonight.」
REBECCA:「Or else...?」
Paul Conroy:「Or else he'll bring me to Sea World. What do you think, lady? Even faced with Paul's sarcasm, Rebecca remains stolid. Professional.」
REBECCA:「We'll do everything we can.」
Paul Conroy:「So you'll pay them?」
narrator:REBECCA
 BEAT) No. That we can't do.
Paul Conroy:「Wait...what?」

REBECCA:「It's the policy of the United States government to not negotiate with terrorists.」
Paul Conroy:「To hell with that! It's easy for you to worry about policy, you're sitting in an air conditioned office somewhere, probably finishing up your sandwich from lunch. You're not the one stuck in a coffin, buried in the God damn desert!」

Paul Conroy:「Frustration? Lady, I'm going to fucking die in here. Understand that! Rebecca is silent on the other end of the phone. Paul wonders if she is still there. The idea of being alone again scares him terribly.
 Hello? Worried, Paul lights the Zippo. The reflection of the flame dances on his frightened eyes.」

narrator:Momentary relief. After a beat:
Paul Conroy:「Well, then say something. Tell me how you're going to get me out of here.」
REBECCA:「What's the number on the phone you're calling from?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know. Did it come up on your end?」

narrator:Paul takes out his pen.
Paul Conroy:「Go ahead.」
narrator:REBECCA
 Paul writes the number onto the top of the coffin.
Paul Conroy:「Who's that?」

narrator:Paul writes "D. BRENNER" next to Dan's phone number.
Paul Conroy:「Hostage Working Group?」
REBECCA:「We formed it in 2004 to deal with situations such as yours. Paul shakes his head in disgust.」
Paul Conroy:「Situations. I love how you keep calling it that.」

Paul Conroy:「Yeah.」
REBECCA:「Good. Hold on, I'll connect you with him now. He should be expecting you.」
Paul Conroy:「What about the news? I'm going to call them.」
REBECCA:「No. Do not, I repeat, do not contact the news.」
Paul Conroy:「Why?」

REBECCA:「It will only complicate things further and threaten your chances of rescue. Paul doesn't buy it.」
Paul Conroy:「That's bullshit. You're just covering your ass.」

Paul Conroy:「You don't go looking for something if you don't know it's missing.」
REBECCA:「That's why you need to contact Dan Brenner right away. Paul still contemplates contacting the news, but soon acquiesces to Rebecca's pleas for him not to.」
Paul Conroy:「Fine.」

narrator:Rebecca's gone. Paul waits. Several beeps sound as he's being transferred. Paul hears a faint sound coming from behind him, outside the coffin. While the beeps continue to sound, he lights the Zippo, circumspectly looking behind him. He doesn't see anything. With the Zippo still lit, Paul takes a deep, centering breath, followed by another. A few more long beeps pass before a ring is heard. After two rings, DAN BRENNER answers.
DAN:「Brenner.」
Paul Conroy:「Dan Brenner?」

narrator:Paul is relieved. His first glint of hope has appeared. Tears of joy instantly escape his eyes.
Paul Conroy:「Oh, thank you, God.」
DAN:「I was told that we have until 9pm. Is that right?」
Paul Conroy:「That's what he said.」
DAN:「Alright. That doesn't give us a whole lot of time. And just so I have this right, the kidnappers buried you in the ground?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah, in an old, wooden coffin.」
DAN:「Okay. My guess is that since you're able to get a cell signal, you're no more than a few feet underground.」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know. Maybe.」

Paul Conroy:「Less than half.」
DAN:「Okay. You have to conserve that battery. Our best bet of finding you is by tracking your cell signal. Is the ringer set on a sound or vibrate?」
Paul Conroy:「Vibrate.」

Paul Conroy:「What about my Zippo?」
DAN:「You have a lighter?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah.」
DAN:「Use it to look around for markings, a logo -- whatever you can find.」
Paul Conroy:「Won't it use up oxygen?」
DAN:「Not much. Don't worry about that now. Try to find --」
Paul Conroy:「It's really dark in here without it.」
DAN:「I understand, Paul. Try to find anything in there that might indicate where that coffin was made.」
Paul Conroy:「You guys have to hurry.」

Paul Conroy:「Do you know if there were any other survivors?」
DAN:「From your convoy?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah.」
DAN:「That's still unclear at this point.」
Paul Conroy:「I just wanted to do right by my family. That's all.」
narrator:MORE)
Paul Conroy:「I didn't know it was going to be like this over here.」
DAN:「I don't think any of us did. While on the phone with Brenner, Paul gets another call coming in. He checks the display and reads the number. Matching it against a number he wrote on the top of the coffin, he sees that is Jabir calling.」
Paul Conroy:「It's him. He's calling.」

Paul Conroy:「Yeah. What do I do?」
DAN:「You know his number?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah.」
DAN:「Give it to me.」
Paul Conroy:「What about the call?」
DAN:「Give me the number first. The phone has rung several times. Paul fears that Jabir may hang up.」
Paul Conroy:「He's going to hang up.」

Paul Conroy:「Hello.」
JABIR:「Two hour, six minute. Paul looks at his watch. Indeed, he has but two hours and six minutes until the time reaches 9pm.」
Paul Conroy:「You have to give me more time.」
JABIR:「You talk to embassy? They give money?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. No. I talked to...someone. Government. They said that they won't pay the money.」
JABIR:「No pay?」
Paul Conroy:「No. They said that they don't negotiate with terrorists.」
JABIR:「Terrorists? I am terrorist?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. You are terrorist, you son of a bitch.」
JABIR:「You are terrified, so I am terrorist?」
Paul Conroy:「What did I ever do to you?」
JABIR:「Ever do?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah. I'm here because it's a job, to make money. That's it.」

Paul Conroy:「That's not my fault! Jabir retorts with a spirited conviction similar to Paul's.」
JABIR:「Nine, one, one was not my fault, but still you are here! Saddam was not my fault, but still you are here!」
Paul Conroy:「I told you, I'm only here to work. To help rebuild.」

narrator:Paul cannot handle his stress any longer. He begins to crumble under the pressure.
Paul Conroy:「Stop! Just please, stop! I'm just a guy. I'm just a truck driver. Okay? I'm nobody that makes decisions about anything. I just want to go home. Silence from the other end of the phone for an extended period of time.」

Paul Conroy:「Yes. Please. Get me out of here and I'll make the video.」
JABIR:「No. You make video now.」
Paul Conroy:「What...? How?」

JABIR:「Near foot. You read note near foot in box. Paul shines the flame of his Zippo lighter toward his feet. He doesn't see anything.」
Paul Conroy:「Where? I don't see --」

Paul Conroy:「The video...if I make it, will you let me go?」
JABIR:「Only if we get money.」
Paul Conroy:「Nobody's going to pay five million dollars for me.」
JABIR:「We take less. One million money.」
Paul Conroy:「If they pay it, will you let me go?」

Paul Conroy:「Shit. Paul presses and holds down the shortcut button on the phone that changes the ringer from vibrate to an audible tone. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul dials Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Dan answers.」
DAN:「Paul?」
Paul Conroy:「Here's his number...」

narrator:Paul presses the green key, bringing up the last numbers dialed and received.
DAN:「Hold on. Alright, go ahead.」
Paul Conroy:「It's 07902-24-921. Dan says something to someone who is in the room with him, and then returns his attention to Paul.」

Paul Conroy:「What about me? Can you track my cell signal?」
DAN:「We're having a lot of trouble with yours. Seems to be an EDS line, probably through one of the Egyptian carriers.」
Paul Conroy:「What does that mean?」
DAN:「That...it's not going to be easy.」
Paul Conroy:「He wants me to make a ransom video.」

DAN:「No. Hold off for as long as you can.」
Paul Conroy:「If it's going to get me out of here, I'm making it.」
DAN:「The last thing we want is for this to end up all over Al Jazeera.」
Paul Conroy:「We? Paul becomes angry, again sensing that more emphasis is being placed on containing the situation than rescuing him.」

DAN:「This can't turn into an international incident.」
Paul Conroy:「That's all you people care about! But what about me? Don't you care about me?」
DAN:「We do. That's why we're --」
Paul Conroy:「No you don't! You people don't care about any of us. I've had eight friends killed out here, six of them today. We don't have any guns, any armor. Nothing.」

DAN:「You're not soldiers.」
Paul Conroy:「Tell that to the people who put me in this box! Tell that to the people who shot my friends!」
DAN:「We're doing the best we can.」
Paul Conroy:「No, you're not. All you people understand are your secret plans and your back room politics.」
narrator:MORE)
Paul Conroy:「If I were some diplomat or something, maybe even a hostage working group leader -- or whatever your fancy title is, I'd be out of here by now. Wouldn't I? But I'm not, so I'm just supposed to keep my mouth shut and die.」
DAN:「I need you to stay focused, Paul.」
Paul Conroy:「Fuck you. Dan's heard enough.」
DAN:「Paul, listen to me: finding you is our primary concern. Bottom line. And we're searching just as hard as we would be for a four-star general, so don't literally waste your breath suggesting otherwise. Paul does not respond at first. Dan's retort clearly has an effect on him.」
Paul Conroy:「Who are they? The people who put me here?」
DAN:「They're just that -- people. No different from you and me.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm no terrorist.」

DAN:「Neither are they.」
Paul Conroy:「How do you know that?」
DAN:「If you were homeless, starving...actually, I take that back. If your family was homeless and starving, what would you do for them?」
Paul Conroy:「I wouldn't kill someone.」

DAN:「How can you be sure?」
narrator:PAUL
 GETTING FRUSTRATED) What difference does it make?
DAN:「They're criminals, desperate ones at that. They don't care about anything other than getting the money.」
Paul Conroy:「So pay them, then.」
DAN:「Trust me, if it was an option, I would do that in a heartbeat.」
Paul Conroy:「How many others have there been?」
DAN:「Since I got here? Hundreds. Journalists, contractors, soldiers...hundreds have been taken. It's one of the only functioning businesses out here.」
Paul Conroy:「How many have you rescued? Dan is reluctant to answer the question.
 How many?」
narrator:DAN
 BEAT) Not many.
Paul Conroy:「Tell me their names.」
DAN:「Who?」
Paul Conroy:「Any of them. Make me know they really do matter to you.」

Paul Conroy:「Who was Mark White?」
DAN:「A kid from New Hampshire. Twenty- six years old. Med student. Came over here to help out local doctors.」
Paul Conroy:「What happened to him?」
DAN:「Insurgents grabbed him.」
Paul Conroy:「When?」

DAN:「About three weeks ago. Paul writes "MARK WHITE" on the top of the coffin, below the list of phone numbers. He circles the name.」
Paul Conroy:「You remember his name.」
DAN:「I remember all their names.」
Paul Conroy:「afraid to ask) Did he...? Is he...? The glow stick begins to fade.」

DAN:「Yeah. Yeah, Paul, he's alive. Hearing this affords Paul some semblance of relief. Paul shakes the glow stick, returning it to its full strength.」
Paul Conroy:「Where is he?」
DAN:「Home. Probably happy to be back at school.」
Paul Conroy:「I want to get out of here.」

DAN:「We found him; we'll find you, too.」
Paul Conroy:「How?」
DAN:「We already have a solid lead on the number you gave us.」
Paul Conroy:「You do?」

narrator:This news calms Paul's nerves.
Paul Conroy:「That's...that's good.」
DAN:「Yeah.」
Paul Conroy:「What should I do in the meantime?」
DAN:「I know it's hard, but try to relax. The more worked up you are, the more air you're going to use.」
Paul Conroy:「I can't help it. I'm always anxious. I take pills for it.」

DAN:「Do you have them with you? Paul checks his pants pockets. He removes a small, orange pill bottle.」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah.」
DAN:「Take them. You need to preserve your oxygen level any way you can.」
Paul Conroy:「Okay.」

DAN:「Is your Zippo still lit.」
Paul Conroy:「Not now.」
DAN:「Good.」
Paul Conroy:「I feel nauseous.」
DAN:「You have to calm down.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm trying.」

DAN:「And you need to save that battery. We're expecting some intel in about ten minutes. Call me back then.」
Paul Conroy:「Okay.」
DAN:「Just hang in there, Paul. The glow stick begins to slowly fade. Paul shakes it, causing it to brighten only momentarily before dimming again.」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah. I'm trying. Dan ends the call. Paul lets out a deep breath, finding it difficult to lay claim to its replacement. He looks at his watch. It's now 7:18pm. The ticking sound of the second hand turning is inordinately loud, due to the extreme silence of the coffin. Just then, the cell phone rings. Checking the number on the display, Paul sees that it is Jabir. Paul answers.
 What?」

Paul Conroy:「No. Jabir yells something in Arabic to the other Iraqi men we hear in the background. Collectively, they do not sound pleased. Slightly panicked, in fact, though it is difficult to tell for sure.」
narrator:JABIR
 TO PAUL) You make video!
Paul Conroy:「Let me out and I'll make it.」
JABIR:「No! You make video now. In box.」
Paul Conroy:「I can't. I can't read the paper.」
JABIR:「Make video now!」
Paul Conroy:「I can't. I don't know what you want me to say. I can't read the paper. Jabir is heard speaking with the men we hear arguing in the background. Although they speak in Arabic, it is clear from their tone that they are becoming worried and increasingly hostile. Jabir returns his attention back to Paul.」

Paul Conroy:「I'm never getting out of here. Paul begins to freak out, restlessly squirming inside the coffin and pressing against the sides and top. The glow stick fades out almost completely, offering very little light. Paul shakes it, but with no change to its brightness. Moments later, it dies. Paul tries the flashlight. Click-click. Click-click. Nothing. He bangs it a few times with his hand. The white light turns on, but quickly turns back off. He twists the top, which causes the flashlight to switch bulbs. A red beam emits momentarily. Paul twists the top again and gives the flashlight a few good whacks.」

narrator:It turns on. White light shines dimly on his face. He takes a breath. In efforts to calm himself, he once again removes the orange pill bottle from his pocket. He pours two into his hand. He then removes his small, metal alcohol flask from his back pocket and takes a large swig, swallowing the two pills in the process. Still, Paul's heavy, labored breathing continues. He drops four additional pills into his and swallows them with yet another generous pull from the flask. He sits and waits. Nothing is happening, except that his extremely limited time keeps passing. After a moment, Paul picks up the cell phone. He holds it in front of him, hesitant to make a call. After some consideration, he dials. After a few rings, a NURSING HOME NURSE answers.
 NURSING HOME NURSE Mountain View Nursing Home.
Paul Conroy:「I was hoping I could speak with Maryanne Conroy, please.」

narrator:NURSING HOME NURSE Misses Conroy, you have a telephone call, dear. Here, you can use this phone. Paul's mother, MARYANNE, answers. Her voice is pleasant but confused. It's clear that she suffers from advanced stages of Alzheimer's Disease.
MARYANNE:「Hello?」
Paul Conroy:「Mom...it's Paul.」

Paul Conroy:「It's Paul, Mom. Your son.」
MARYANNE:「My son?」
Paul Conroy:「It's okay, Mom. How are you?」
MARYANNE:「I'm fine.」
Paul Conroy:「That's good.」

Paul Conroy:「It's your son, Mom. It's Paulie.」
MARYANNE:「Paulie?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah. Remember? We lived over on Colfax Street, in the duplex. Remember?」
narrator:MARYANNE
 REMEMBERING SLIGHTLY) Paulie?
Paul Conroy:「That's right, Mom.」

MARYANNE:「Is this Paulie?」
Paul Conroy:「It is, Mom. It's Paulie. How's everything at the home?」
MARYANNE:「Very nice. Your father and I have been playing gin rummy every night. It's almost too much for Paul to take. He cries silent tears over a heartbroken smile.」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah...I don't think Pop's there with you, Mom.」

MARYANNE:「How are you doing, sweetie?」
Paul Conroy:「Not very good. This...uh, this may be the last time I talk to you.」
MARYANNE:「That's nice, honey.」
Paul Conroy:「Did you get the flowers I sent a few months ago?」
MARYANNE:「Flowers?」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah, I sent...never mind. Listen, I...I'm going to go now. I just wanted to talk to you, you know, just to say bye. I love you, Mom. Maryanne doesn't respond.」

Paul Conroy:「after a beat) Okay, Mom. Tell Pop I said hi. Paul ends the call and instantly begins crying his heart out. He lays there, sobbing relentlessly. After a long beat, the cell phone rings. Decidedly different than his past reactions to an incoming call, Paul seems hopelessly disinterested. The ring is maddening. He mindlessly presses the shortcut button, resetting the ring to vibrate mode. He eventually picks up the phone, but there is not anyone on the other end. It's then that he sees that it was not a call that came in, but instead was a picture message. Pressing what appears to be the Accept button, the incoming picture begins to download. Several seconds later, the picture downloads and an image appears on the display of Paul's cell phone. It's of a woman -- bound and gagged, a gun pressed against the side of her head.
 Oh no. No, no, no! Paul frantically dials the number to reach Jabir. As soon as the phone connects, Paul begins his desperate plea.」

Paul Conroy:「Let her go. Please. Please don't hurt her. The Woman is heard in the background of Jabir's phone, crying muffled words through her muzzled mouth.」
JABIR:「We shoot her if you no make video.」
Paul Conroy:「No! No, please no shoot. No shoot her.」

Paul Conroy:「I will, I promise. Just don't shoot her. She's a mother, she's got two kids.」
JABIR:「Two kids?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. She has two kids.」
JABIR:「I have five. Now only one. You make video. Now!!」
Paul Conroy:「Wait...」

JABIR:「No wait!! I give three seconds.」
Paul Conroy:「I can't read the paper.」
JABIR:「Three...」
Paul Conroy:「No. Wait!」
JABIR:「Two...」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know what you want me to say!」

JABIR:「One.」
Paul Conroy:「Okay! Okay, I'll make the video. Just, please, don't shoot. Jabir does not fire his gun. Paul attempts to catch his breath.
 I need to hang up to make the video. Okay? Is that okay?」

narrator:Jabir hangs up, ending the call. Paul reaches for the balled-up piece of paper that has the ransom script written on it. It takes some trouble for him to grab it, but he is soon able to. Placing the flashlight next to the paper, Paul is again reminded of the incoherent nature of the script.
Paul Conroy:「re: the script) Fuck... He drops the paper to his side and opens the phone, setting it to the video record function. He places the flashlight close to his face so as to make his image more visible on the small, phone display screen.」

narrator:He presses the record button.
Paul Conroy:「speaking at the phone) My name is Paul Conroy. I'm an American citizen from Hastings, Michigan. I'm a civilian truck driver for Crestin, Roland and Thomas. I've been taken hostage somewhere in Iraq...and I need one million dollars by nine o'clock tonight, Baghdad time, or else I'll be left to die in this coffin I'm buried in. I've been told that if... The flashlight goes out. Paul continues speaking in the darkness. After a few quick smacks, the flashlight turns back on.
 ...the money is paid, I will be let go. If it's not, I will die in here. These threats are real and will be followed through on. Trying to think of more to say, Paul soon opts for not saying anything further. He saves the message and then sends it to Jabir. We see that the screen displays an icon confirming the video has been sent. Paul places the phone on his chest. Still rubbing his temples, his eyes begin to flutter a bit. He tries to control his breathing and remain calm.」

narrator:Struggling through each move, Paul painstakingly begins to turn himself. While turning, however, he inadvertently kicks the Zippo from the side of the coffin -- landing it on the floor, up against the glow stick -- and knocks over the flask. We see that the flame of the Zippo slowly melts the plastic glow stick, causing it to dim slightly. Worst still, and completely unbeknownst to Paul, a stream of alcohol slowly makes its way from the flask and toward the flame of the lighter, threatening to set the coffin ablaze. Inch by inch, the flammable spirit gets closer. Still in the midst of his repositioning, Paul looks back and sees the alcohol nearing the flame. In a panic, he attempts to reach and grab the Zippo. But, he finds himself stuck in the middle of the coffin. He can't budge either way.
Paul Conroy:「No, no, no!! Desperately straining every muscle in his body, he extends his arm backward toward the Zippo, hoping to move it away from the spilled alcohol. He still can't reach it, yet he tries with all his might. The phone stops ringing. He has missed the call. He tries blowing at the flame, but his head is too far away and his breath is not strong enough to do much more than cause it to flicker. With the alcohol now mere inches away from the flame, Paul reaches for his shoe. His odd positioning makes reaching his foot almost impossible. He struggles to undo the laces and remove it from his foot. With his face beet red from the force of his strain, Paul finally removes his shoe. The mere inch of leg room this creates allows him to slide his leg out from under him. The trail of alcohol is just about to come into contact with the flame -- -- but Paul deftly maneuvers his body just in time to awkwardly kick the Zippo out of the way and close the lid. Paul breaths an enormous sigh of relief as he sits in the dim light of the damaged glow stick. He notices another hole in the coffin. As a precaution, he stuffs it with the cloth that had previously been used to gag him.」

narrator:Just as he is about to grab the phone, he hears what appears to be the faint sound of a Muslim call to prayer being announced over the citywide PA system. The sound barely makes its way through the hundreds of pounds of sand that envelop the coffin. A sign of hope, as well as a point of reference for his location -- albeit a very vague one. He listens further as the call to prayer continues. The light of the glow stick dims further. Paul then opens his phone. Sees that he missed Jabir's call. He starts to call Jabir back, but stops. He instead navigates through the various display menus. He soon reaches what appears to be the Tools Menu, though it's difficult to tell because everything is written in Arabic. He becomes frustrated as he fails to find what he is looking for. On the verge of mental surrender, he sees something that gives him pause. A smile crosses his face.
Paul Conroy:「re: the phone screen) There you are. We see, on the display of the phone, that Paul has found a listing of languages. He scrolls past many -- "FRANCAIS, DETSCHE, ESPANOL" -- stopping at "ENGLISH." Presses the button, instantly making all the text on the screen readable. He quickly navigates to the Tools menu. Scrolls down. Locates the number of the cell phone he is using. He scribbles the number onto the top of the coffin. Then a second pass, making it bolder than the others. Paul then dials his wife's cell phone. After only a few rings, he is met by her voice mail.」

LINDA:「V.O.) Hi, this is Linda. Please leave a message. Thanks and have a great day. The beep sounds, and Paul frantically proceeds right into his message.」
Paul Conroy:「Linda, here's the number for the phone. I just found it out. It's 07902-42-884. You have to use the international calling code first.」
narrator:MORE)

Paul Conroy:「Please call me as soon as you get this. I love you...I love you. Call me right away. Please. Paul hangs up. He looks at the battery life left on the phone. One bar. He then checks his watch. It's 8:19pm. Both are not good signs, and he knows it.
 Oh shit. He begins to panic. Grabbing the pocket knife that was left inside the metal box, he slides the blade in the space between the sides of the coffin and the top. Paul grabs the glow stick. But, because it was partially melted to the floor, the stick snaps in two. Liquid oozes out of the small portion of the stick that remains stuck the floor.
 Son of a... Paul grabs the flashlight. Turns it on. It works for a second, but then goes out. Shaking it only produces intermittent beams of light. He turns the top, switching to the red bulb. It works. The coffin fills with a reddish hue, but then it, too, goes out. Growing incensed, Paul switches back to the white bulb. It works. He returns his attention to the coffin. His efforts to use the knife as a fulcrum are futile. Still, he tries. Bending the blade well past its design, it nearly breaks off its handle. The flashlight turns off. After a good shaking, it turns back on, emitting white light. With oxygen levels extremely diminished, efforts of this kind are all too much for Paul to take. He has to stop and try to catch his breath. As he endeavors to get his wind back, the cell phone rings. Not a call this time, but instead a video message. It has been sent by Jabir. Paul's trepidation is evident. He fears what the incoming video may show.」

narrator:The video message ends immediately thereafter. Paul is in complete shock. He screams aloud, slamming his closed fist against the bottom of the coffin.
Paul Conroy:「No! No, no, no!!! Still in the throes of emotional torment, Paul vomits on himself. He doubles over, only to vomit once again. His body, taxed almost to the point of complete physical breakdown, gradually slows and levels itself. With his vomit- smeared face pressed cheek-down onto the bottom of the coffin, Paul stares into nothingness.」

narrator:Paul shines it onto the names and phone numbers written on the top of the coffin. He stops at "MARK WHITE." After a beat, he lowers the flashlight to his side. He picks up the phone and dials Brenner. After one ring, Brenner answers. He's clearly not pleased. Paul, however, is surprisingly calm. Detached. Almost disturbingly so.
DAN:「Why the hell did you make that video?」
Paul Conroy:「It's all a bunch of lies.」

DAN:「What is? What are you talking about?」
Paul Conroy:「All of it.」
DAN:「All of what?」
Paul Conroy:「Nobody gives a shit about any of us. We're nothing to you people.」

Paul Conroy:「By looking the other way?」
DAN:「You can't start breaking on me now, Paul. You have to stay strong.」
Paul Conroy:「You let her die.」
DAN:「after a beat) No I didn't.」
Paul Conroy:「They shot her...and you didn't do anything.」
DAN:「We didn't even know she had been taken hostage.」
Paul Conroy:「She sent three videos.」
DAN:「That's what they told her to say.」
Paul Conroy:「Why?」
DAN:「I don't know.」
Paul Conroy:「What do you know?」

DAN:「That your ransom video already has 47,000 hits on YouTube. And all the major networks are playing it, including Al Jazeera. So, now your captors have no choice but to follow through.」
Paul Conroy:「I found out the number to this phone.」
DAN:「How?」
Paul Conroy:「I found a way to change the display language. I figured that out, and you didn't. Why?」
DAN:「Because I didn't. Just like you and every other person on this planet, there are some things I know and some things I don't.」
Paul Conroy:「Then how are you ever going to find me?」
DAN:「Their signal was cloned, like we figured. But, we're close. Real close.」
Paul Conroy:「What about mine?」
DAN:「We're working on that, too.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm near a Mosque. I could hear the call to prayer over the P.A.」
DAN:「Good. That means that we're in the right area.」
Paul Conroy:「You're nearby?」

DAN:「I spoke with soldiers from the third ID who were escorting your convoy.」
Paul Conroy:「They're alive? After a beat:」

narrator:Paul doesn't answer at first.
DAN:「Paul. After a beat:」
Paul Conroy:「We had just left Anaconda, everything seemed okay. We knew that a bunch of our CB radios had been stolen and that the Iraqis were listening in, so we made sure to switch from our usual channels. Pam was riding with Jeff Breer, the convoy commander. She wanted to ride with me like she usually did when she hitched a ride from base, but it seemed safer for her to be with the C.C. As we headed down the road, all these kids came running into the street. Dozens of them. It almost seemed like they were expecting us, except we got there faster than they thought we would. So they run on up in front of me, and I slam on my brakes. The rest of the drivers were already further up ahead, so they kept going. Next thing I know, one of the lead trucks got hit by an IED. I hear Tommy Wilkes on the radio saying, Sandman's hit, Sandman's hit. He's...he's everywhere.」
narrator:MORE)

Paul Conroy:「That's when the Iraqis came out of their mud huts from the side of the road and started shooting everybody. I couldn't believe what was happening. It seemed like slow- motion, like I was watching it on TV. People -- my friends -- were getting killed, and all I could do is watch. I didn't even notice that the kids were throwing bricks and rocks at me until one split my windshield. Sort of snapped me out of my trance. But then, I guess I got hit in the head with a rock, `cause I blacked out.」

narrator:He assesses his situation, noticing that the coffin is already filled with a small layer of sand; a situation that is only going to get worse with time.
Paul Conroy:「This can't be happening. We see that Dan Brenner is no longer on the phone, and that the display menu shows an icon of a phone with a line through it -- No Service Available. Once he feels it is secure enough, Paul slowly moves his body away from the crack. Although slightly caved, it does not show any more signs of possible collapse. Sweat drenches his face. His eyes affixed, in utter disbelief, on the sand as it spills into the coffin, filling in around him inch-by-inch.」

narrator:He grabs the cell phone, only to see that he does not have a signal.
Paul Conroy:「No. Come on. Please work. He shakes the cell phone and moves it all around the coffin, hoping that it may somehow help. His efforts are futile. The flashlight goes dead. He hits it, shakes it. It turns back on. The brightness is diminished. Still the sand continues to fall, drowning him deeper and deeper in a pool of granules. Then, very surprisingly, the cell phone rings. Paul answers right away.」

narrator:PAUL
 FRANTICALLY) Hello? Hello? Who's there? Alan Davenport answers calmly from the other end.
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Is this Paul Conroy?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. Yes, this is Paul. Who are you?」

Paul Conroy:「I left you a message.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「You did. I also heard from Rebecca Browning over at the State Department. Are you able to speak on the status of your situation?」
Paul Conroy:「It's worse. There was an explosion or something. The coffin's breaking, there's sand pouring in from everywhere. I only have a half an hour before --」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Okay, okay. Slow down. You should try to stay calm. Tell me something, Paul, who have you spoken to?」
Paul Conroy:「The hostage takers, Dan Brenner from the hostage working group --」

Paul Conroy:「No.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「That's good. It needs to stay that way. It's important that we keep this situation as contained as possible. Paul finds Alan's obvious concern with doing damage control to be infuriating.」
Paul Conroy:「About three inches to my right, there's a wall. Three inches to my left, there's another wall. And about four inches above my head, there's a roof that's about to collapse and drown me in sand. I think this situation is pretty contained.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「I know you're upset --」
Paul Conroy:「Help me! Help me! What are you going to do to help me?!」

Paul Conroy:「Thank God.」

ALAN DAVENPORT:「This is Alan Davenport, Personnel Director for Crestin, Roland and Thomas, Incorporated. The date is October 23, 2006. I am speaking with Paul Conroy. Mister Conroy, are you aware that I'm recording this conversation?」
Paul Conroy:「What...?」

Paul Conroy:「Shit. Paul hits it, but it does not catch. He sits in darkness.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Mister Conroy?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. Yes!」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「And do I have your permission to do so?」
Paul Conroy:「Why do you need my permission? What is all this?」

ALAN DAVENPORT:「I need you to answer yes or no, please.」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. Alright? Yes! Paul hits the flashlight. It turns back on.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Thank you. Now, Mister Conroy, when were you hired by CRT?」
Paul Conroy:「About nine months ago. Around January of 2005. Why are you wasting time with this?」

ALAN DAVENPORT:「I have your official date of hire as January 4th, 2005. Is that correct?」
Paul Conroy:「Who cares? This is fucking crazy --」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「January 4th, 2005. Is that correct?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes!」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「And during your initial training, before being sent to Iraq, were you made aware of the dangers inherent to the position for which you were hired.」
Paul Conroy:「You mean when I came down there to Dallas and you guys said that all of the trucks would be armored and have bulletproof glass? The flashlight dims. Paul angrily shakes it, returning it to full strength.
 You mean when you told us that things were safer than ever over here? Is that when I was made aware?」

Paul Conroy:「Yeah, I signed a bunch of things.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Yes or no.」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. I signed the contract. Yes!」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「It's our understanding that you were taken hostage in Iraq two hours ago, is that also correct?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. That's completely correct. What is the point of all this?」

narrator:Alan breaks from the H.R. handbook script, though his tone remains just as matter-of-fact. The flashlight continues its steady, slow dim.
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Our legal department requires that we obtain a sworn affidavit from employees, confirming that they understand the reasons for their forced separation from the company. As of this morning, your employment with CRT was officially terminated.」
Paul Conroy:「Wait, wait, wait -- The flashlight dims even more.」

ALAN DAVENPORT:「It was brought to our attention that you were engaging in relations with a fellow CRT employee -- Pamela Gorham.」
Paul Conroy:「No. Wait --」

Paul Conroy:「We...we were just friends.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Our records indicate differently.」
Paul Conroy:「This is bullshit.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「We're also legally required to inform you that because you were technically no longer under the employ of CRT at the time of your abduction, we cannot be held accountable for any injury that may befall upon you after your official date and time of termination. Therefore, in your case, that includes this incident or any consequences that may result from it. Paul sees where Alan is going with this. He's thunderstruck.」
Paul Conroy:「What about my insurance money? My family will need that money...」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「Given that you were alive up until the time of your termination --」
Paul Conroy:「You son of a bitch. You can't do this.」

ALAN DAVENPORT:「Do you understand everything --」
Paul Conroy:「You can't do this! Alan takes a second before trying again.」

narrator:After a long beat:
Paul Conroy:「Go to hell.」
ALAN DAVENPORT:「That concludes our interview with Paul Conroy. I am now turning off the recorder. A click is heard. The humming ceases.」
Paul Conroy:「You people can't just wash your hands of this. You bastards put me here.」

ALAN DAVENPORT:「I'm sorry. Alan ends the call. Paul looks at the phone -- it is still holding a steady signal. Battery life, however, is running quite low. All that remains is one blinking bar, indicating that Paul has very little battery life left. He shakes his hand free of the pile of sand that now covers it and looks at his watch. It's 8:31pm. The flashlight bulb dims until it goes out completely. Only the light of the cell phone display lights the coffin.」
Paul Conroy:「Come on...」

narrator:Wasting little time, Paul dials Jabir. The phone rings and rings, but Jabir does not answer. Checking to make sure the he dialed the correct number, Paul matches it against the phone number he wrote onto the wall of the coffin. Seeing that he did, in fact, dial correctly, Paul again tries to call Jabir. While he waits through the many rings, he tries relighting the Zippo. Spark...spark...it catches. No one answers. Paul's disquietude is evident in his increasingly erratic behavior.
Paul Conroy:「Answer the phone!! Paul tries Jabir once again, but still he does not answer the phone.」

Paul Conroy:「desperate, exhausted) Why won't you answer?!! It's then that something occurs to Paul. He stares at the crack in the top of the coffin and the sand that pours in at an alarmingly fast rate. The crack has split Jabir's written phone number in half. The aerial bombing. He wonders how it may have affected Jabir and, consequently, his own chances of survival. He places his hand under the point from where the sand pours in most, allowing it to collect on his palm and slip through his fingers. The flickering Zippo flame tells of the diminished amount of oxygen. Paul attempts to control his breathing, realizing full well that there are not many more breaths he will be able to take. He then calls Dan Brenner. After a few rings, Brenner answers. Paul is surprisingly serene.」
DAN:「Paul, is that you?」
Paul Conroy:「They're dead.」

Paul Conroy:「I just do.」
DAN:「Three F-16s levelled parts of the city a few minutes ago.」
Paul Conroy:「I know. I felt it. Did they know I was here? The Zippo flame flutters. Weakens.」

Paul Conroy:「Did they care? Dan does not answer.
 These people that took me -- if they're dead, they can't tell you where I am.」
DAN:「We can still try to track down your signal.」
Paul Conroy:「You tried that already.」

DAN:「We can try again. Paul appreciates Dan's effort, but he knows there is little hope left for him.」
Paul Conroy:「It's over, isn't it? After a long beat:」

narrator:The flame of the Zippo becomes smaller. It clearly has little life left.
Paul Conroy:「What should I do?」
DAN:「I don't know.」
Paul Conroy:「That's right -- just like everyone else on the planet, there are some things you know and some things you don't.」

DAN:「I wish this could have gone differently.」
Paul Conroy:「Yeah...me too. After a long beat, Paul ends the call. He forces a smile to his lachrymose face. Utterly hopeless, he opens the phone and turns on the video feature. He turns the phone to face himself, projecting his image on the display. He presses Record.
 This is Paul Steven Conroy. Social Security number 048-32-1198, date of birth 3/19/68. This video will serve as my last will and testament. To my wife, Linda Conroy, I leave the seven hundred dollars in my personal savings and whatever I have left in my annuity. To my son, Shane Conroy, I...I don't know. I don't have anything else. My stuff, like, my clothes. I wish I had more...I wish I had done more. Your dad wasn't really much of anything, Shane, I'm sorry. Maybe if I was a famous baseball player, or a guy who wore a suit to work, I would have more to leave you. But, you can be one of those people if you want. You can be whatever you want. Just promise me that when you get older, you'll take good care of your mom. And promise me that you'll always try to do the right thing, no matter what. I love you very much, Shane. Maybe I never said that enough...maybe I did, I don't even know. That probably means I didn't.」

narrator:Paul answers immediately.
Paul Conroy:「You're not dead. Jabir is heard speaking frantically in Arabic to the several other people in the room with him.
 Hello? Hello?! Jabir turns his attention to Paul.」
JABIR:「Where is money?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know.」

JABIR:「What don't know?」
Paul Conroy:「I don't know where the money is.」
JABIR:「Liar!」
Paul Conroy:「I'm not lying! I swear.」
JABIR:「Swear?」
Paul Conroy:「I'm telling the truth.」

narrator:Sounding panicked, Jabir again speaks in Arabic to the other people in the room with him. They respond accordingly. Paul tries to turn on the flashlight. It doesn't work. Jabir returns his scornful attention to Paul.
JABIR:「From Embassy, you get money now!」
Paul Conroy:「I can't!」
JABIR:「You will!!」
Paul Conroy:「I need more time. Please. Paul shakes and hits the flashlight. It still does not work.」
JABIR:「No more time!」
Paul Conroy:「There's sand pouring in here. I can't...it's everywhere. Please, let me out of here and I will get you the money. Jabir utters something in Arabic to someone standing next to him, seemingly asking a question and getting an answer from the same individual. Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight. Switches the positioning of the batteries. Screws the cap back on. Hits the switch. Nothing. Jabir returns to the phone.」
JABIR:「You show blood.」
Paul Conroy:「What? Paul unscrews the top of the flashlight again. Removes the batteries. Bites down on them a few times. Blows hard inside the flashlight tube.」

Paul Conroy:「No.」
JABIR:「You cut off thumb finger, send video.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm not doing that.」
JABIR:「Yes! Paul puts the batteries back inside the flashlight. Begins screwing on the cap.」
Paul Conroy:「No.」
JABIR:「No?」
Paul Conroy:「That's right, no. You let me out of here, and I'll cut off my whole God damn hand if you want. Jabir again says something to someone in the room with him, returning to Paul after a brief moment. Paul finishes closing the top of the flashlight.」

narrator:Paul considers Jabir's question to be a potential sign of compassion.
Paul Conroy:「Yes, I do. And a son. A young son. I want to go home...to see them. Please, sir.」
JABIR:「Sir?」
Paul Conroy:「Yes. Sir. I say that out of respect...to you.」

JABIR:「East Walnut Street. Hastings, Michigan. U.S.A.」
narrator:PAUL
 CONCERNED) That's my...why did you say that?
JABIR:「You show blood...or they show blood.」
Paul Conroy:「That's...you're lying. You're nobody...all of you. You can't get to them.」

JABIR:「No?」
Paul Conroy:「No. You're peasants, criminals, that's all. You don't even know where Michigan is.」
JABIR:「Detroit. Ann Arbor. Even this basic knowledge is enough to make Jabir's threats that much more real.」
Paul Conroy:「You looked at a map. That's all you did.」
JABIR:「You show blood, or they show blood. Send video by five minutes. Jabir ends the call. Realizing that Jabir is gone, Paul quickly dials his wife's cell phone. After several rings, her voice mail picks up.」
LINDA:「V.O.) Hi, this is Linda. Please leave a message. Thanks and have a great day.」
narrator:PAUL
 FRANTICALLY) Linda, listen to me: you and Shane have to go somewhere... anywhere.
 MORE)

Paul Conroy:「Don't stay at the house, whatever you do, do not stay at the house. The guy...the kidnapper, he knows our address. He stole my license and now he knows where we live. Go to the Sheriff's station if you have to, just don't go home. Paul hangs up. He takes a moment to look around, noticing that the coffin is almost halfway filled with sand.
 (re: the sand) Holy God. Paul then dials Dan Brenner. After only one ring, the call goes directly to voice mail.」

narrator:The flashlight starts to dim. Paul shakes it, causing it to regain its strength.
DAN:「This is Daniel Brenner. Please leave a message at the tone. The beep sounds. Paul delivers a frenzied message.」
Paul Conroy:「Brenner, where are you?! He's alive! He just called me! Call me right away! The fucking guy is still alive! Paul hangs up the phone. Unsure what to do next, Paul's heartbeat races. He fidgets, nervously shaking and tapping his thumb against the phone. He questions the validity of Jabir's threats toward his family.」

narrator:He hits the flashlight a few times. Click. It turns on. Paul opens the phone and sets it to take video. He places it flat onto the surface of the sand, which by this point is already filling the coffin halfway. He then reaches for the knife.
Paul Conroy:「Oh my God. Oh my God. He places his hands against the side of the coffin, spreading his fingers. He stares intently at his thumb. With the extremely sharp knife in hand, Paul slowly lowers it just above his thumb. He inhales and exhales deep breaths, almost hyperventilating.」

Paul Conroy:「Yeah?」
DAN:「Paul, it's Brenner. Paul doesn't have the strength to answer.
 Paul? Are you there? Paul?」
Paul Conroy:「I'm...here.」

narrator:This news serves as somewhat of an adrenaline rush for Paul, who musters up even the modicum of strength he seemingly did not have left in him.
Paul Conroy:「You're coming?」
DAN:「We are, Paul. We're almost there now.」
Paul Conroy:「How do you know?」
DAN:「Coalition forces picked up a Shiite insurgent just outside of Baghdad.」
narrator:MORE)
DAN:「Said he knew where an American was buried alive. He agreed to show us where if we let him go.」
Paul Conroy:「You're coming for me?」
DAN:「We're practically there already. An impossible smile fights its way to Paul's lips. His momentary joy is just that, however, for the sand has almost completely filled the coffin by this point.」
Paul Conroy:「You have to hurry.」

DAN:「We are.」
Paul Conroy:「No...you have to hurry. The sand...it's filling up fast.」
DAN:「Just hang in there for three more minutes. This will all be over soon, I promise. Paul is very hopeful that Dan is correct in his assumption.」
Paul Conroy:「Okay. I believe you. Thank you. Thank you. A beep is heard. Paul has another call coming in. He's visibly elated upon seeing who it is.」
DAN:「Three minutes. Try to --」
Paul Conroy:「I have to go!」
DAN:「Paul, no --」
Paul Conroy:「Call me right back.」

Paul Conroy:「Call me right back. Paul switches to the other call, despite the fact that he has a mere eight inches left before the entire coffin is filled with sand from top-to-bottom. He holds the flashlight just above the top of the sand pile, allowing it to illuminate what little unoccupied area remains.
 Linda. Linda is in hysterics, which is evident in her speech.」
LINDA:「Paul? Paul is that you? Tell me it's you.」
Paul Conroy:「It's me, sweetie.」
LINDA:「Oh my God, Paul! What are they doing to you? Please tell me you're okay.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm...okay.」
LINDA:「I just saw the news. What...oh my God, baby. The flashlight dims. Paul shakes it, regaining a bit of its strength.」
Paul Conroy:「It's going to be okay now.」
LINDA:「I missed all your calls. I left my cell phone at home. I just found out what was going on.」
Paul Conroy:「That's okay. It's all okay. They're getting me out.」

Paul Conroy:「The people. Americans. They found out where I am and they're on their way to get me.」
narrator:LINDA
 ELATED) They are? Oh thank God. Oh dear God, thank you. The flashlight flickers. Paul hits it. It flickers some more.
Paul Conroy:「It's all going to be okay.」
LINDA:「How do you know for sure? Oh God, please tell me you're okay. The flashlight continues to flicker almost like a stroboscopic light from this point forward.」
Paul Conroy:「I'm okay.」
LINDA:「I was so afraid I was going to lose you.」
Paul Conroy:「You're not. Linda breaks down in joyous tears.」
LINDA:「I love you so much. I love you so, so much.」
narrator:PAUL
 WELLING UP) I love you, too.
 BEAT) I'm sorry. I should have listened to you.
LINDA:「It doesn't matter.」
Paul Conroy:「I should have never come here. You were right. I'm sorry.」

LINDA:「Sweetie, I don't care. I just want you home. Please come home to me.」
Paul Conroy:「I will.」
LINDA:「Swear it.」
Paul Conroy:「I will. I swear I will. Paul then receives a call on the other line. He checks to see who's calling. It's Dan Brenner.
 They're here!」
LINDA:「The people?」
Paul Conroy:「They're calling me right now. I have to go.」
LINDA:「Call me right away.」
Paul Conroy:「I will. I love you.」
LINDA:「I love you. Swear it again.」
Paul Conroy:「I swear. I have to go. Paul clicks over to the other line, where Dan Brenner waits to speak with him. We hear Dan yelling to people who are with him. A great deal of commotion and action is heard through the phone.」
DAN:「Move! Move! Let's go.」
Paul Conroy:「Brenner?」

Paul Conroy:「It's me.」
DAN:「We're here! Dan yells to one of the soldiers who are with him.
 Corporal, get your men over here! Dan gets back on the phone with Paul
 He brought us right to you.
 (to the soldiers) Start digging! Let's go, let's go! The flashlight fades. Paul hits it, momentarily returning it to full strength. Meanwhile, the sand inside the coffin has almost reached the very top. It continues to pour in from the crack, seemingly faster than ever. Paul struggles to keep his head above the sand, giving him only a few inches between his face and the top of the coffin.」
Paul Conroy:「You have to hurry. It's almost full.」

Paul Conroy:「Hurry! Please!」
DAN:「to the soldiers) Dig! Dig! Dig! Paul fights to keep his head above the sand. The flashlight dims.」
Paul Conroy:「I can't...are you close?」
DAN:「We're almost there, Paul. We're almost there! (to the soldiers)」
narrator:MORE)
DAN:「Faster!」
narrator:TO PAUL) We're almost there. We're right above you. The level of sand grows even higher. Paul spits away falling sand that threatens to suffocate him.
Paul Conroy:「I can't hear you! Where are you?」
DAN:「We're almost there. A SOLDIER is heard OFF-SCREEN in the b.g. of Dan's phone.」
narrator:SOLDIER (O.S.) There it is!
DAN:「to the soldiers) Keep digging!!」
Paul Conroy:「Hurry! Please!!!」
DAN:「We see the coffin! Just hang in there!! Paul coughs out sand. He has a mere inch left above his head.」
Paul Conroy:「Hurry! Where are you? I don't hear you? Please hurry!!!」

Paul Conroy:「What is it?!」
DAN:「I'm so sorry, Paul.」
Paul Conroy:「What?!!」
DAN:「It's Mark White. He brought us to Mark White. I'm -- We see the circled name of "MARK WHITE" written in capital letters on the top of the coffin.」
Paul Conroy:「You said...!」
narrator:DAN
 OVERLAPPING) ...I know. I'm sorry.
Paul Conroy:「No.」
DAN:「I'm so sorry.」
Paul Conroy:「No!! No!! NO!!! The battery life on Paul's phone runs out, causing it to power down. The filament of the flashlight bulb burns out. As it does, the sand finally consumes the coffin, filling it completely.」
