narrator:OPENING CREDITS OVER SUPER-FUNKY BLAXPLOITATION-STYLE MUSIC, which builds to an exciting crescendo filling us with the expectation of a thrilling, action-packed opening sequence.
 Instead we get:
 INT. SETH'S CAR - MORNING
 Seth, seventeen, a bit heavyset, in the midst of a sad attempt at growing a goatee and clearly a terrible driver, cruises along while fiddling with the CD player. He pulls out his cell and dials.
Seth:「Yo.」

narrator:INTERCUT WITH:
 INT. EVAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 2
 2
 Evan, seventeen, a little too tall and slim, a boy who clearly never figured out how to style his hair, is finishing off a bowl of cereal. He is on his cell phone.
EVAN:「What's up?」
Seth:「I was doing research last night, for next year, and I think I'm gonna go with Bang Bus.」
EVAN:「Which one's Bang Bus?」
Seth:「The one where they bang the chicks on the bus. Thirteen bucks a month. Total access, live Web Cam feed. The works. It'll be like I'm on the bus, banging them myself.」
EVAN:「That stuff's bullshit, they're all faking it. And plus, your parents are gonna look at the bill.」
Seth:「It shows up under a different name. (beat) I hope. Bang Bus. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED) 2. 2
 CONTINUED:
 2 SETH That wouldn't look good. Maybe I should just pick the one with the least dirty sounding name.
EVAN:「Weapons of Ass Destruction's out then.」
narrator:Seth pulls up in front of a house.

Seth:「I could tell my parents I'm doing a project on Rome and I have to research orgies.」
narrator:EXT. EVAN'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 3
 3
 Evan walks out his front door. WE REVEAL he is walking towards Seth's car.
EVAN:「still into phone) Yeah. Just tell them your taking a class on blow jobs.」
narrator:They both hang up and Evan gets in the car. Seth is about to pull away, when EVAN'S MOTHER comes out the front door.
 EVAN'S MOM Thanks for taking him, Seth.
 Evan changes the radio station. Seth slaps his hand.
Seth:「Don't touch that!」
narrator:EVAN'S MOM You two are so funny. I can't imagine what you'll do without each other next year. Evan told me you didn't get into State.
Seth:「Yeah, you know. I got some other places. Good places. I think we'll be fine.」

Seth:「That's disgusting.」
narrator:MOM Bye, boys.
 Seth and Evan drive off.
Seth:「I am truly, truly jealous that you got to suck on those tits when you were a baby.」
EVAN:「Fuck you, man.」
narrator:EXT. CLARK SECONDARY- SOON AFTER 4
 4
 They drive up to Clark Secondary. There is a giant sign that reads "Seniors - Two Glorious Weeks Until Graduation". Seth turns into the STAFF parking lot.
 INT/EXT. 7-11 STORE - MOMENTS LATER 5
 5
 Seth and Evan walk past a group of smokers, towards the 7-11.
EVAN:「You're being an idiot, man. You really shouldn't park there.」
Seth:「Fuck it. I'm a senior about to graduate. They should be suckin' my balls. It's the least they can do for stealing three years of my life.」
narrator:They walk past DIMITRI (18, big Native American guy) as they enter the store. Dimitri aggressively bumps his shoulder into Seth.
EVAN:「What the hell's wrong with Dimitri?」
Seth:「Oh, yeah dude, I forgot to tell you. I knocked the fuckin' shit out of him in capture the flag last week.」

EVAN:「Look at those nipples.」
Seth:「They're like baby toes.」
EVAN:「It's not fair. I have to hide every erection I get.」
Seth:「Sometimes I get boners so big I can't hide them. And then I get nervous and my heart starts pounding, and it all just, like, feeds my boner. It just becomes this...thing...that's attached to me. And it won't go away.」
EVAN:「Just imagine if girls weren't weirded out by our boners and they actually wanted to see `em, like this shit.」
Seth:「You know it's been, like, a year and a half since I've seen an actual human female nipple. Besides my mom's. I saw it last month, and it was sick.」
EVAN:「Holy shit. Liat was two years ago? I guess so. She was insanely hot, though.」
Seth:「Exactly. Too hot. That's what sucks.」
EVAN:「How can that possibly suck? I'd be fuckin' psyched if I'd gotten with a girl that hot. You got, like, two dozen handjobs!」

Seth:「And three quarters of a blowjob, But that was fuckin' it. It was the peak of my ass- gettin' career, and it happened way, way, way too early.」

Seth:「Exactly! If I'd built up to it, I'd probably at least be having steady sex with a mediocre-looking girl at this point. I honestly now see why Orson Welles ate his fat ass to death.」
EVAN:「You'll have sex in college. Everyone does. And if not, you'll have the Bang Bus.」
Seth:「But the key is to be good at sex by the time you're in college. You don't want girls to think you suck dick at fucking.」
EVAN:「I still think you've got a chance with Jules. She got mad hot over last summer, and clearly hasn't realized it, `cause she still flirts with you.」
Seth:「Are you joking, man? Let's see here...she dated Dan Remick, Matt Muir, Josh Corber and what's-his-face. All of those were cool guys. She's been hot way longer than you think. Why would she end her high school career with me?」
EVAN:「Well, Helen got with Ariel Shafir.」
Seth:「Yeah, and he was a complete fucking loser. You're a step up from that. Which is why you should stop being a pussy and do her! You could nailthe shit out of her for, like, two months before you leave. That bitch looks like a good fucker.」

EVAN:「Hey! I'm sick of you talking about her like that, man!」
narrator:Evan starts to walk out. Seth follows.
Seth:「What, you can talk about that bitch all day every single day, but I can't say one thing about her?」

EVAN:「I don't constantly insult her.」
Seth:「I didn't insult her! I said she looks like a good fucker! She looks like she can take a dick. That's a good thing. Some women pride themselves on their dick- taking abilities.」
narrator:EXT. 7-11 - CONTINUOUS 6
 6
 Seth and Evan come out the front doors. TERRY, one of the rough-looking smokers, calls out.
 TERRY Yo. Seth. Did you hear I'm having the big grad party?
 Evan, a little scared, keeps his distance.
Seth:「No.」
narrator:TERRY Yeah.
 Terry spits on Seth's shirt.
 TERRY And you're not coming. Tell your fucking faggot friend he can't come either.
 Seth wipes the spit off. He looks at Terry and seems as though he's about to say something, but is interrupted when Terry starts hocking up more spit. Seth runs away as Terry and his friends laugh. He catches up to Evan and they head back to school.
EVAN:「Wow. You really bitched out on that one.」
Seth:「I bitched out? You bitched out! You were across the street before I even realized what was going on. (beat) That guy's such a douche bag.」

narrator:BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF A P.E. CLASS
 There are 30 guys standing behind the starting line of the school's track. We hear a TEACHER yell "Go!" and the boys start running.
 We FOLLOW them from above. All the boys keep pretty much the same pace except for one runner who slowly lags behind. The group gets so far ahead of the him that he is alone in the frame. He stops.
 CLOSE UP OF THE RUNNER:
 Kneeling on the track breathing heavily. It's Seth.
Seth:「panting) This...is...bullshit.」

EVAN:「Yeah...well, you know, me and Seth are always cooking up...uh...fun little...events.」
narrator:Helen is disappointed in his response.
HELEN:「So, are you guys going to the same school next year?」
EVAN:「Nah. We were going to but, uh, we got into different ones.」
HELEN:「What are you going to do without him?」
EVAN:「Same shit I've always been doing. It'll be fine. Don't worry about it. I'm not.」
narrator:INT. FOODS AND NUTRITION ROOM - NEXT PERIOD 15
 15
 Students file into the home economics room. The blackboard reads, TODAY: TIRAMISU. The ingredients are listed below.
 Seth is talking to the cooking teacher.
Seth:「Mrs. Grier, I joined this class because I thought I'd be cooking with a partner. It's not fair. She's never here. I don't get twice the marks for doing all the work.」
narrator:MRS. GREIR I didn't invent odd numbers, Seth.
Seth:「Look at Evan.」
narrator:Evan is playfully throwing flour at a tiny Japanese boy. They both laugh hard.

Seth:「While I'm over in my unit, isolated and alone, eating my terrible-tasting food because I can't even properly mix ingredients by myself, I gotta look over at that.」

narrator:The Japanese boy ties Evan's apron. Evan then turns around and ties the boy's apron. They both look happy.
Seth:「I wash and dry. And that is B.S. I'm like a single mother.」
narrator:MRS. GREIR Well, save it for next week. Today Jules' partner isn't here either. Pair up with her. Station four.
Seth:「Jules?」
narrator:The teacher walks away. Seth looks over to station four, nervous as hell.
 ANGLE ON: Jules, well-dressed and "popular" looking.
 She stands alone at station four, laying out utensils.
 Seth musters his courage and walks towards Jules. He stops, unsure of what to say.
JULES:「Hey Seth, your partner didn't come again?」
Seth:「That's kind of a personal question.」
JULES:「What?」
Seth:「nervous) Nothing. It was my attempt at humour.」
JULES:「Well, uh, maybe I kidnapped her so you'd be forced to work with me. There's my attempt at humour.」
Seth:「Well, I would call that a success. (reading recipe sheet) Marscampone... scamponee cheese? Is that some kind of new cheese or something?」

JULES:「All cheese tastes the same to me anyway.」
Seth:「Except blue cheese. That stuff is sick.」

JULES:「Thank you! Yes! My older brother always eats blue cheese. You know that stuff is actually moldy. Like, they tell you it's moldy, then they tell you to eat it anyway.」
Seth:「Well whoever "they" are, they can eat my dick.」
narrator:INT. FOODS AND NUITRITION ROOM - LATER 16
 16
 Jules watches as Seth awkwardly removes the tiramisu from the oven and places it on the table.
JULES:「What are you doing tonight?」
Seth:「I don't know, probably nothing. Why?」
JULES:「My parents are out of town and I'm thinking of having a party. I don't know how big it'll be, but you should come anyways.」
Seth:「Yeah. Sure. That sounds fun. I love parties.」
JULES:「Really? I don't usually see you at them.」
Seth:「Oh, uh. It's more of, like, a love-hate thing. Right now I love them, though. Uh...how do I do this?」

Seth:「whispering) Dude! She's havin' a fuckin' party.」
narrator:ANGLE ON: Fogell entering the room
Seth:「(whispering) Don't tell Fogell about the party.」
FOGELL:「Hey guys, I was walking here, and on the way, I saw Nicola, and she was wearing these tight white pants and a black g- string and you could see it right through the pants.」
narrator:INT. HALLWAY (FLASHBACK) - EARLIER 17
 17
 We see Fogell, looking at the ass of NICOLA, an incredibly hot girl who exudes sexual vibes and looks a little skanky; you can see her black g-string through her tight white pants. She turns and notices Fogell. He gives an awkward look.
FOGELL:「It's nine thirty.」
NICOLA:「What?」
narrator:INT. FOODS AND NUITRITION ROOM (PRESENT) - CONTINUOUS 18
 18
 Back to Fogell, Seth and Evan.
FOGELL:「I told her what time it was. It was awesome. She's got the nicest ass.」
Seth:「Like you'd know what to do with it.」

FOGELL:「Ha ha. I'm really gonna miss your knee- slappers when me and Evan are at State.」
Seth:「pissed) Yeah, well I'll be at Junior college where the girls are half as smart, and thus twice as likely to blow me.」

Seth:「Nothing. Sorry. You'll just have to fingerbang yourself.」
EVAN:「to Fogell) What you doing?」
FOGELL:「Well, Seth always said I was too much of a pussy, but he was wrong. It's been arranged. At lunch, I'm going to the same place Mike Snider went to pick up my brand new false identification card.」
Seth:「Dude! That's perfect, `cause, Evan, didn't you just say that you heard about a party?」
FOGELL:「to Evan) Why didn't you tell me?」
Seth:「Shut up. Who cares? Just be happy he told. And hey! Now you can buy the booze.」
FOGELL:「Sounds cool. Cool.」
narrator:MRS. GREIR (O.S.) If you're not in this class, leave this class!
EVAN:「Well done, man. We'll see you after class.」
narrator:Fogell leaves.
Seth:「Did you tell that nimrod you're not going to room with him?」
EVAN:「Uh...no, not yet.」
Seth:「You better, man. That guy is a poon-tang repellent.」

JULES:「Seth, dishes time. What's the hold up?」
Seth:「We're getting a fake ID.」
JULES:「Well, you two have four more years to cuddle, so let's get to work.」
EVAN:「Actually, we're going to different schools.」
JULES:「Really? You're cutting the cord? What's going to happen?」
Seth:「Nothing! Jesus.」
EVAN:「Yeah? What do people think is gonna happen? That's what I don't get.」
Seth:「We're not, like, dependent on each other.」
EVAN:「We met when we were 8, we were fine before then. It's not like we do everything together.」
narrator:INT. CLARK SECONDARY CAFETERIA - DAY 19
 19
 Seth and Evan are eating together.
EVAN:「So it looks like we get a little graduation party after all.」
Seth:「I would do terrible things to get with Jules tonight. Terrible things.」
EVAN:「No shit. I'd give my left foot to start dating Helen. She's killin' me.」
Seth:「Ah, Helen's a bitch.」

EVAN:「I'm fuckin' sick of this shit, man! Seriously. Why do you hate her? Is there even an actual reason? Because seriously, I'm beginning you think you like her.」
Seth:「Hell no! I hate her.」
EVAN:「Why?」
Seth:「I was never going to tell you this story, because I knew that if you heard it you would never want to get with Helen, but over the last few weeks I've been having a hard time thinking of a reason not to. So, here it is. Helen and I went to elementary school together, right? (beat) Well, in the third grade, I had...like...an odd problem. For some reason, I don't know why, I used to have this thing...where I would...like, kinda...sit around all day and draw pictures of dicks.」
EVAN:「What?」
narrator:INT/EXT VARIOUS LOCATIONS 20
 20
 A MONTAGE of FLASHBACKS of YOUNG SETH (Age 10) drawing pictures of dicks in various places. A PARK, AT HOME, IN A SANDBOX, and finally, in a SCHOOL CLASSROOM.

Seth:「V.O.) I'd just sit there for hours on end drawing dicks. I don't know what it was. I couldn't touch the pen to paper without it drawing a penis.」
EVAN:「V.O.) That's fucked.」
Seth:「V.O.) No shit that's fucked up. Here I am this little kid who can't stop drawing dicks to save his life. 17.」

narrator:INT. CLARK SECONDARY CAFETERIA -PRESENT 21
 21
EVAN:「What does that have to do with Helen?」
Seth:「Just listen.」
narrator:INT. RANDOLPH ELEMENTARY CLASSROOM -FLASHBACK 22
 22
 Young Seth is still sitting at his desk drawing penises.
Seth:「V.O.) I was very secretive about this dick thing I had going, after all, even I thought I was a loon, lord knows what other people would have thought. So I would take all my dick drawings and stick them in this Muppet lunch-box I had.」
narrator:We see Young Seth sticking a picture of a penis in a lunch- box filled with pieces of paper.
 INT. RANDOLPH ELEMENTARY CLASSROOM - DAY 23
 23
 Young Seth is drawing, however it is a different day.
Seth:「V.O.) So one day I was finishing up a picture of a real big and veiny bastard, when all of a sudden...」
narrator:Young Seth drops the picture of the dick off his desk. It floats down and hits the feet of a cute little girl, YOUNG HELEN.
 INT. CLARK SECONDARY CAFETERIA - PRESENT 24
 24
EVAN:「You hit Helen's foot with your dick?」

narrator:INT. RANDOLPH ELEMENTARY CLASSROOM - MOMENTS LATER 25
 25
 The little girl picks up the picture and looks at it with a truly disturbed look on her face. Young Seth grabs the picture from her and shoves it into his lunch-box.
 INT. CLARK SECONDARY CAFETERIA - PRESENT 26
 26
Seth:「Well she fucking flipped. She started crying and shit. Ratted me out. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED) 18. 26
 CONTINUED:
 26 SETH The principle finds my cock-Muppet lunch- box, and he fucking flips.
 INT. RANDOLPH ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLE'S OFFICE - DAY 27
 27
 A FLASHBACK of Young Seth sitting in the principle's office. The Muppet lunch-box is open and the penis drawings are completely covering his desk.
Seth:「V.O.) It turns out the principle was some crazy religious guy and he thought I was possessed by some dick devil or something.」
narrator:The principal puts his hand on Seth's head and begins praying for his soul.
 INT. CLARK SECONDARY CAFETERIA - PRESENT 28
 28

Seth:「So, he calls my parents and they make me go to a psychologist who kept asking me all these dick questions. My parents wouldn't even let me eat dick-shaped foods for, like, months! No carrots, no Pop-sicles, no hot-dogs. You know how many fucking foods are shaped like dick?」
EVAN:「half amazed, half amused) Wow. That's really messed up.」
Seth:「I can't even stand to look at her punk face. (beat) I'm going to go take a piss. Peace.」

Seth:「Hey. Here I am.」
JULES:「So you're coming to my party, right? It's fully on.」
Seth:「Yeah. Why? Should I not?」
JULES:「No, no, no. I really want you to come. But...uh, you did say you were getting a fake ID or something, is that right?」
Seth:「Very right. Right. I'm getting that.」
narrator:SHIRLEY Can you get us drinks?
Seth:「Ummm... I don't know. I... think...maybe.」
JULES:「half joking) Come on, you scratch our backs, we'll scratch yours.」
Seth:「Well, funny thing about my back. It's located on my cock.」
narrator:Shirley is offended. Jules laughs a little. Seth laughs too hard.
Seth:「Ha! Alright, sure. I can do that. What do you guys want?」
JULES:「Well, this is actually, like, a big favor, but, well, my parents gave me like a hundred bucks to feed myself for the week, but the house if full of food, so I figure I should just spend all of it on extra drinks for the party.」

Seth:「Wow. I would never even think of doing something that nice.」

JULES:「Well, this is really nice of you. I mean, I really appreciate this.」
narrator:Seth can't believe what he's hearing. He can barely contain his smile.
Seth:「Should I just get, like, a shitload of different shit?」
JULES:「Whatever shit you think people would like, I don't really know.」
narrator:SHIRLEY I want Mike's Hard Lemonade.
JULES:「Okay. I'll see you tonight.」
Seth:「Yeah! I'll see you!」
narrator:The girls walk off, leaving Seth lost in thought. He suddenly runs down the hall.
 EXT. SCHOOL FIELD - MOMENTS LATER 31
 31
 Evan is standing alone amidst the rest of his gym class as they play soccer.
 GYM TEACHER Evan, get into the game.
 Evan says nothing and the teacher soon redirects his attention elsewhere. Evan sees Seth jogging towards him.

Seth:「out of breath, worked up) Man, just - Evan, listen to me. You know Jules? You know what she just did? She came up to me and asked me if I would buy her alcohol. Not just her, her whole party. Do you know what that means? It means that by some miracle, we were paired up, we talked, and she actually thought of me afterwards. Thought of me enough to decide that I was the guy that she was going to trust the fun-ness of her party with. She wants me! She fucking wants my dick!」

EVAN:「Did you ever think maybe she's just using you to get her alcohol?」
Seth:「Of course I thought of that! LISTEN TO THIS!」
narrator:INT. FOODS AND NUITRITION ROOM (FLASHBACK) 32
 32
 The same scene as before with Seth and Jules in class.
JULES:「Yeah! My older brother always eats blue cheese. You know that stuff is actually moldy.」
narrator:EXT. SCHOOL FIELD - PRESENT 33
 33
Seth:「She has an older brother! She could have asked him, but she asked me! She looked me straight in the face and asked me. She wants to fuck me, man. Do you understand that? Fucking! Today is the day that fucking has become possible.」
EVAN:「Are you stupid? You're not going to be able to sleep with her tonight.」
Seth:「She's going to be at the party, she's gonna be drunk, and she likes me at least a little, so I can get with her. Then, I make her my girlfriend, and then I fuck her all summer long! Then, by the time college rolls around, I'm the fuckin' fucking master, man!」

EVAN:「Make her your girlfriend? Of course! That's good. So, hypnosis, love potion, or mind-control helmet?」
Seth:「Once I've gotten with her, I write her love letters, flowers, I'll do anything - I'll be the most pussy-whipped guy in the universe - what chick wouldn't go out with a guy like that?」

narrator:The soccer ball rolls towards them. They both watch as it rolls by.
 CLASSMATE What the hell, Evan?
 Evan shrugs back.
 CLASSMATE Fuck you, man.
Seth:「Fuck off, Greg. Why don't you piss your pants again?」
narrator:CLASSMATE That was, like, eight years ago, asshole!
 He runs off.
Seth:「to Evan) Wanna hear the best part?」
EVAN:「sarcastic) Oh, I haven't?」
Seth:「Helen!」
narrator:Evan looks upset, assuming that Seth is about to trash-talk Helen, as usual.
Seth:「You do the same thing, man! Buy Helen her alcohol. Then, tonight, when you guys are both drunk, get with her! This is the last party we're ever going to go to as high school people! I've fully ignored my hatred for Helen in coming up with this, which is a big ass deal. We need to stop being pussy and for once just goes balls out, man!」
narrator:Evan seems to be swayed.
EVAN:「I should get Helen alcohol?」
Seth:「Of course! It'll be pimp, and then you know she'll be drunk.」

EVAN:「Have you talked to Fogell?」
Seth:「You talk to Helen, I'll find that retard Fogell.」

HELEN:「giggling) Don't worry about it. So I'll see you at the party?」
EVAN:「Yeah. I'll see you then. I'm so sorry about that.」
narrator:EXT. CLARK SECONDARY - CONTINUOUS 35
 35
 Seth is waiting angrily in front of the school. Evan comes out the front doors.
Seth:「That douche bag isn't back yet, I've been standing here with my thumb up my ass.」
EVAN:「I did it, dude. I even offered to pay for it. It was pimp.」
Seth:「Whoa. That is fucking pimp. Why didn't I do that? Shit.」
narrator:The bell rings.
 INT. WOODSHOP CLASS - CONTINUOUS 36
 36
 Seth and Evan work side by side in the woodshop.
Seth:「yelling over the machines) That's what we get for trusting a mental midget! He's fucking it all up! I bet he pussied out, just like I said he would!」
narrator:EXT. CLARK SECONDARY - AFTER SCHOOL 37
 37
 Seth and Evan walk out the front door.

Seth:「I mean, what are we going to tell the girls? "Sorry, we couldn't do what we promised because we're dickless incompetents!" We'll never get laid because of that little ass-fuck. How did he get in to State?! He's got shit for brains! Shit! How else can we get liquor?」

narrator:Seth and Evan turn around to see Fogell running after them.
EVAN:「Where have you been?」
Seth:「Yeah! You almost gave me a goddamn heart attack! You better fucking have it, where is it?」
FOGELL:「I got it. It's flawless! It's great, man, look.」
narrator:Fogell reaches into his pocket and pulls out the fake ID. Evan grabs it.
EVAN:「reading the card) Okay Mr..."McLovin"? What kind of a stupid name is that? What are you trying to be, an Irish R&amp;B singer?」
FOGELL:「Well, they let you pick any name you want when you get there.」
Seth:「So you picked McLovin?」
FOGELL:「It was between that or Muhammad.」
Seth:「Why was it between that or Muhammad? Why didn't you just pick a common name?」
FOGELL:「Actually, Seth, Muhammad is the most commonly used name on earth.」
EVAN:「Have you ever actually met a guy named Muhammad?」
FOGELL:「Have you actually ever met a guy named McLovin?」
Seth:「No! That's why you picked a bad name.」

EVAN:「You probably have federal agents tracking you for even considering the name Muhammad on a fake ID!」
Seth:「Look at this shit man, you don't even have a first name. It just says "NAME: MCLOVIN"」
EVAN:「One name?」
FOGELL:「I just thought McLovin sounded old, and the chicks would dig it.」
EVAN:「Under what circumstances would you ever have to show a chick your ID?」
FOGELL:「She could ask. Or, I could just show it to her.」
Seth:「Holy shit! I don't believe this. This says you're fucking 25! Why didn't you just put 21?」
FOGELL:「I knew you would ask that. Look, every day, dozens of kids roll into the liquor store with fake ID's trying to act like Joe Casual. Each and every one of these kids just so happens to be 21 years old. Just how many 21 year-olds do you think there are?」
Seth:「Fool!」

FOGELL:「I am McLovin.」
Seth:「You're not McLovin. No one's McLovin and this is never going to work. We need a new way to get alcohol. Could we drive to Canada or something?」
FOGELL:「I still think it's going to work.」
narrator:They walk into the staff parking lot. Seth stops.
Seth:「What the fuck? Where's my car?」
EVAN:「I told you, man! What did I say? I told you that was a dumb idea.」
FOGELL:「Why would you park in the staff-」
Seth:「Shut up, Fogell.」
FOGELL:「Cause you're not staff.」
Seth:「I am aware of that, Fagell.」
narrator:Seth storms off. Evan follows him.
FOGELL:「yelling) Will you still pick me up from work?」
narrator:Evan and Seth round the corner, leaving Fogell behind.
Seth:「Let's go to your house.」

Seth:「Now we wait for your Mom to piss off and steal your parents' booze like your brother always does. Take a bit from every bottle. Piece of cake. It's not exactly what Jules wanted, but it'll do, right?」
EVAN:「Come on! Just wear what you wore to school.」
Seth:「I told you I can't do that. I can't let Jules see me in the same shit I wore at school. It's completely unbecoming.」
EVAN:「Why don't you just go to your house and get your own clothes? `Cause this is stupid.」
Seth:「You're stupid! I can't go home. Then my mom will know the car got towed and I'll be grounded tonight. I'll just stay here all weekend and pick it up on Monday.」
EVAN:「RE: video game) Where the fuck is the dirt bike? (beat) Ah, screw it. I'm just gonna kill everyone. Boom! Die, piggies!!!」
Seth:「Don't you have bigger clothes?」
EVAN:「See what my dad's got.」

narrator:INT. EVAN'S HOUSE - PARENTS ROOM - SOON AFTER 39
 39
 Seth is wearing Evan's Dad's clothes: a 70s style cowboy shirt, just barely pulling it off, as well as slacks.
Seth:「Not bad, eh?」

Seth:「Alright, here's what we'll do. I'll fuck your Mom in the basement while you steal the liquor.」
EVAN:「Fuck you, asshole. Let's just sneak down there and grab it.」
narrator:INT. EVAN'S HOUSE - LATER 40
 40
 Evan and Seth, carrying an empty two liter bottle of Coke, cautiously descend the creaking staircase. Their eyes watch the TV room, where Evan's mom is on the phone. The boys enter the dining room and cautiously open the liquor cabinet. Seth enthusiastically reaches for a bottle.
Seth:「whispering) Alright, dude. Get ready to receive.」
narrator:Evan begins unscrewing his bottle, when he notices a little black line marking where the liquor bottle is filled to. Then, he realizes that every bottle has it.
EVAN:「whispering) I can't believe it. They marked them.」
Seth:「whispering) What do you mean they...oh, man! Your parents are fuckers. What do we do now?」
EVAN:「whispering) Shh!!! We...we...take some and fill it back up with water. Get ready, I'll get water.」

narrator:Evan hurries off. Seth looks at the liquor cabinet, trying to choose the best booze. He grabs a massive bottle of gin. Evan reappears.
EVAN:「(whispering) Gin? That stuff is literally undrinkable.」
Seth:「whispering) It's the biggest bottle, you douche. Just do it! She's right in the other room!」

narrator:Evan reluctantly holds an empty Coke bottle as Seth shakily pours the gin in. Evan starts refilling the gin bottle with water, when suddenly they both hear his mom coming.
EVAN:「whispering) Run!」
Seth:「whispering) But, the booze?」
EVAN:「whispering) Take it!」
narrator:Seth runs off with the gin and Coke bottle. Evan quickly closes the cabinet and sneaks off right before his mom enters. Through the window she see's that Seth is already on the front lawn and thinks nothing of it.
EVAN:「Bye, Mom! Love you.」
narrator:EVAN'S MOM Love you, sweety.
 Evan leaves.
 EXT. EVAN'S HOUSE - FRONT LAWN 41
 41
 Evan and Seth triumphantly walk away. Seth holds up the gin.
Seth:「Look at this mother. Smell it's glory.」
narrator:He opens it up and takes a whiff.
Seth:「Mmm. It's good. Barely a scent.」
narrator:He takes a crazy big swig.
Seth:「See that? I always said I had the highest alcohol tolerance. I'm like Superman.」

Seth:「Water? (drinks again) Fuck. Your brother beat us to the punch. We have to go back!」
EVAN:「We can't go back! She totally knew, she'll bust us for sure, and we have to meet Fogell.」
Seth:「Well, fuck...fine. Text your brother he's a stupid piece of crap.」
narrator:Evan pulls out his cell and chuckles as he types.
 EXT. SHOPWELLS - DUSK 42
 42
 Evan and Seth walk off the bus. They see Fogell walking towards them. He's in his uniform holding a hanger with a shirt and a vest.
Seth:「What the hell is that?」
FOGELL:「A vest.」
Seth:「You're gonna look like a Pinocchio.」
EVAN:「What? It's just a vest.」
FOGELL:「Yeah. How many high schoolers you see in vests?」
Seth:「eyeing Shopwell's) You know, they got a ton of liquor right in there. If we get it now we can get to the party faster with all of Jules' shit.」
FOGELL:「No way! I work there. They know I'm not twenty-five.」

Seth:「Nobody said anything about you, dick- mouth. You have one name on your ID. It's out of the equation! (MORE) (CONTINUED) 32. 42
 CONTINUED:
 42 SETH And now I'm gonna have to take drastic measures. I'm gonna steal the booze.」
FOGELL:「What?! No! Hell no! You can't do that!」
EVAN:「mocking) Yeah, right!」
Seth:「That's right. And that way I give Jules back her money, like you did with Helen. That was good thinking, that's fucking pimp. That's how you seal a deal. It won't be hard. Remember Dan Vertlieb stole a keg from here and he's got, like, really bad scoliosis!」
EVAN:「You're not gonna steal it. Fogell, he's not going to steal it.」
FOGELL:「Please. Don't do this! I promise. I'll get the liquor later.」
Seth:「I'm stepping up. And once I'm up, I don't step back down. Maybe you "State" boys don't understand that.」

narrator:Seth walks to the store.
 INT. SHOPWELL'S - CONTINUOUS 43
 43
 Seth enters the store, looking determined. He spots a SECURITY GUARD standing by one of the registers.
Seth:「to himself) Hope piggy can run.」

Seth:「Twenty two.」
CASHIER:「You certainly are. That'll be eighty dollars.」
narrator:Seth hands the cashier a big EIGHTY DOLLAR BILL.
Seth:「Thank you kindly.」
CASHIER:「You're welcome, Seth.」
narrator:INT. SHOPWELL'S - CONTINUOUS 45
 45
 Seth, still standing in front of the liquor aisle, shakes his head. He eyeballs the old lady.
 INT. SHOPWELL'S (FANTASY) - EVENING 46
 46
 The old lady is browsing. She drops her big purse. A hand reaches down and picks it up. It's Seth.
Seth:「Excuse me, ma'am. You dropped your purse. Would you like me to help you to your car?」
narrator:OLD LADY That would be lovely, young man. Would you like me to buy you alcohol?
Seth:「That would be lovely!」
narrator:EXT. SHOPWELL'S (FANTASY) - MOMENTS LATER 47
 47
 Seth, holding two huge bags of liquor, waves to the Old Lady as she drives away.
Seth:「Enjoy your remaining years!」

narrator:CONTINUED) 34. 48
 CONTINUED:
 48
 He arrives at a fancy looking bottle. He takes it and looks down at it in his hands. A big golden label reads, "GOLDSCHLAGER."
 SECURITY GAURD (O.S.) Don't do it kid.
 We see that the Security Guard is right behind him. Seth doesn't look up, he just stares at the bottle dramatically.
Seth:「I never had a choice.」

Seth:「Fuck you! I was gonna do it, but security was tight as shit. I was gonna do it though, don't think I wasn't. Let's go to the liquor store and try your stupid ID.」

narrator:EXT. LIQUOR STORE - EVENING 51
 51
 The bus stops in front of the liquor store and the guys get out.
EVAN:「Well, here we are. Fogell, are you ready?」
Seth:「Here's the list.」
FOGELL:「A list? Why?」
Seth:「We're getting girls their booze so they'll get with us. I put a lot of thought into that list. It's the perfect party bar, so don't mess it up and get Sambuca again.」

Seth:「Oh yeah, and Mike's Hard Lemonade.」
FOGELL:「This is too much. I can't get away with this much!」
EVAN:「What's the difference?」
narrator:Seth hands Fogell the money.
FOGELL:「I don't know, man. I'm getting, like, really nervous.」
narrator:Fogell starts breathing very hard and making an ODD NOISE while doing so.
EVAN:「Are you okay?」
Seth:「What the hell are you doing?」
FOGELL:「I don't know if I want to do this.」
Seth:「What are you talking about? You just promised you would. What is this shit?」
FOGELL:「What if they turn me down?」
Seth:「Then we're in the same place that we're in right now!」
FOGELL:「It's fucking humiliating! Everyone in the store sees them kicking me out. What if they make me put all the liquor back on the shelf? I can't do that!」
Seth:「This whole thing is bigger than you, asshead! Just go in there and buy the damn alcohol!」

Seth:「Then I will kill you! How's that? If you don't buy the alcohol, I will kill you!」
FOGELL:「Killing me won't get you any alcohol, jerkoff! I'm the one with the ID!」
Seth:「Then I will kill you, cut off your ugly face, put it over mine, and buy it my fucking self.」

narrator:CLERK Are you sure?
FOGELL:「I think I would know, thank you.」
narrator:Fogell walks away.
 INT. LIQUOR STORE - LATER 53
 53
 Fogell has a shopping cart filled with booze. He gets in line to pay. He looks ahead to the OLD-LOOKING GUY (35) who is currently at the CASHIER (woman) paying.
CASHIER:「Um, yes, may I please see some ID?」
narrator:OLD-LOOKING GUY No problem. Heh. I haven't been ID-ed in years.
CASHIER:「Anyone who looks under thirty-five.」
narrator:The guy looks through his wallet. Fogell nervously watches.
 EXT. LIQUOR STORE - CONTINUOUS 54
 54
 Seth and Evan peek through one of the store's front windows.
Seth:「It's a good ID, right? Mike Snider never had a problem. It's fine. Right?」
EVAN:「Calm down. (beat) Did you remember a condom?」
Seth:「You brought a condom?」
EVAN:「Yeah, I figured, you know, might as well. I brought one of those little things of spermicidal lube too.」
narrator:He takes them out of his pocket.

Seth:「You asshole! You laughed in my face when I said we'd be having sex tonight.」

EVAN:「It doesn't mean you shouldn't be prepared. You didn't even bring one?」
Seth:「No. That wasn't the plan! We had a plan! I can't believe you did that without even consulting me about it!」
EVAN:「I don't really even understand what your plan is.」
Seth:「I'm gonna go down on her for, like, hours. She'll love that. She'll want to go out with that.」
EVAN:「Yeah, but I figured there's no harm in bringing just one little condom.」
Seth:「And one little bottle of spermicidal lube. That's nuts. You can't let her know you brought that! These girls are 18, not dried up old ladies. They're ready to go.」

CASHIER:「Umm, okay sir, I'm gonna need to see some ID.」
FOGELL:「Identification?」
narrator:EXT. LIQUOR STORE - CONTINUOUS 56
 56
 Seth and Evan are still leaning against the window.
EVAN:「Do you think I could get Helen to do some kind of long distance thing?」
narrator:Seth looks as if he sees something in the distance. He stands upright.
Seth:「Holy Shit! It's Cary Hutchins!」
EVAN:「I haven't seen her since she switched schools.」
Seth:「She had the biggest tits in the universe.」
narrator:Down the block there is a girl walking a dog.
EVAN:「I heard she had breast-reduction surgery. Her tits must be crazy perfect now.」
Seth:「I gotta see these bastards. Let's check `em out.」
narrator:Seth and Evan run off towards the girl.
Seth:「Man, I'm gonna pretend to trip and grab `em. (beat) I hope they've healed.」

CASHIER:「That comes to a total of $123.59」
narrator:A huge smile forms on Fogell's face as he pulls out a wad of money and hands it to the cashier. She starts to gather his change when, SUDDENLY, a BIG GUY runs up and PUNCHES Fogell right in the side of the head!!! Fogell falls to the ground. The dude sticks his hand in the open register, grabs a handful of money and runs!
 The whole thing is over in a matter of seconds. Fogell is on the ground, dazed and confused.
FOGELL:「What the hell happened?!」
narrator:Fogell sees the distressed cashier frantically dialing the police.
CASHIER:「breathing hard) I don't believe it...I don't believe it....」
narrator:EXT. UP THE STREET FROM THE LIQUOR STORE - MOMENTS LATER 58
 58
 Seth and Evan walk down the street towards the liquor store.
EVAN:「That was a waste.」
Seth:「But she fully looked way better before. I thought when they reduced them, they just kind of reshaped them nicer. Made them more supple.」
EVAN:「I can't even begin to imagine the justification for making breasts smaller.」
Seth:「It's like me making my nuts saggier.」

narrator:Evan sees something in the distance.
EVAN:「Whoa. What's this?」
Seth:「What?」

narrator:Fogell looks like his heart is about to explode out of his chest.
FOGELL:「My name, it's...it's.. (tripping over his own words) Mc..mac..laddle...」
OFFICER SLATER:「MicMac what?」
FOGELL:「No, no I said, "McLovin".」
OFFICER MICHAELS:「McLovin?」
FOGELL:「McLovin.」
narrator:The officers both write down some information.
OFFICER SLATER:「Cool name. And your first name?」
narrator:Fogell looks twice as scared.
FOGELL:「Oh...that's uh...a good one...it's a...an interesting...uh...event...」
narrator:Fogell trails off mumbling and starts to breathe heavily, making an ODD NOISE. Behind him, in the window of the store, we see Seth and Evan peeking through.
 EXT. LIQUOR STORE - CONTINUOUS 60
 60
 Shocked, Seth and Evan walk away from the window. Seth starts to pace in anger.
Seth:「I don't believe this bullshit! I can't...this isn't happening! I didn't even know you could get arrested for this shit! WE NEED THAT FUCKING LIQUOR!」

EVAN:「Oh my god. Are they gonna take him downtown?」
Seth:「Fuck Fogell! He got arrested! We're on our own. (MORE) (CONTINUED) 45. 60
 CONTINUED:
 60 SETH We need a new way of getting liquor. (realizing) AAAHHH!! The money! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! How much money can you get?」
EVAN:「What are you talking about? Money? What about Fogell?」
Seth:「That doesn't matter anymore. I just lost a hundred dollars of Jules' money!」
EVAN:「We have to help him!」
Seth:「Help him? What are we gonna do? Bust him out of jail? I don't even know where jail is! What we need is the alcohol, which is impossible because we don't have any fucking money!」
narrator:Seth steps into the driveway leading to the parking lot.
EVAN:「Fine. Just...calm down. We need to think. We need to think.」
Seth:「Fuck thinking! We need to act!」

FOGELL:「Look. I'm really sorry, but I don't really have any information. I didn't really see him. His fist hit here.」
narrator:Fogell points at his giant black eye.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Are you in a hurry or something?」
FOGELL:「Uh, yeah... kinda. I kinda had to catch a bus.」
OFFICER SLATER:「Where were you going?」
FOGELL:「Umm... near thirteenth and Granville.」
OFFICER SLATER:「We'll take you there, get your information on the way. Sit tight.」
narrator:Fogell is completely dumbfounded.
 EXT. LIQUOR STORE - CONTINUOUS 62
 62
 The driver is pleading with Seth and Evan.
DRIVER:「I'm so sorry, man! I'm so sorry! I didn't see you at all. Are you okay? Are you okay? I'm sorry, man. Look, what can I do? Are you okay?」
narrator:The driver glances at the cop car.
DRIVER:「I mean, please don't report me, we can figure this out, okay?」
Seth:「Why wouldn't I report you?」

DRIVER:「Because I'll do anything! Please! Anything! What can I do?」
Seth:「You have any money?」

EVAN:「quietly to Seth) What are you doing?」
DRIVER:「beat) Fine. Just take it.」
narrator:The driver reaches into his pocket and hands Seth some money. Seth looks at it. It's seven dollars.
Seth:「What is this? This isn't enough.」
narrator:Seth stuffs the money in his pocket.
DRIVER:「It's all I have.」
Seth:「Well, you just came from the liquor store, give us your liquor.」
DRIVER:「I didn't get any. They're not letting anyone in. They're arresting someone or something.」
Seth:「Well, they'll be arresting somebody else if you don't do something quick. Ow! My shoulder! It's killing me.」
narrator:Seth, acting poorly, pretends he's way more hurt than he is.
DRIVER:「No! Wait! Okay, you want alcohol?
 I can get you alcohol. I'm on my way to
 this party right now. There's gonna be
 tons of liquor. I will definitely get you
 plenty.」
Seth:「You better.」

Seth:「What? Jules' money is gone, Fogell's out, we've got no other option. Let's go.」
EVAN:「I don't....I don't like this idea at all. I'm just not feeling it. That guy's fucking creepy. Just look at him.」
narrator:They look at the Driver, who is staring at Evan with a dumb expression on his face.
DRIVER:「to Evan) You know a guy named Jimmy, perchance? Cause you totally look like his brother.」
Seth:「He's an idiot. And he's our only hope. Come on, don't break your promise to Helen.」

narrator:INT. DRIVER'S CAR - CONTINUOUS 64
 64
 Seth and Evan sit in the back seat. The Driver is in the front.
DRIVER:「One of you bros could have sat up here with me.」
narrator:There is an awkward silence, when suddenly Seth starts to wriggle in discomfort.
Seth:「Aaah!」
narrator:Seth fishes his cell phone out of his pocket and looks at it.
 SETH875-6611? (thinking) Holy shit...
 Seth answers the phone.
Seth:「Jules! What's the haps?」
DRIVER:「Who is it?」
narrator:INTERCUT WITH:
 INT. JULES HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 65
 65
 There are six girls passing two beers in a circle while dancing blissfully to crappy 80s music.
JULES:「Seth! Where are you?」
Seth:「Jules! I just got in a cab and I'm going to the liquor store as we speak.」
JULES:「Awesome. I can't wait for you to get here.」
narrator:A huge smile sweeps across Seth's face.
Seth:「Really?」

JULES:「Yeah. It looks like it could actually be a great party. I think, like, tons of people might show up. I hope they don't trash my house.」
Seth:「Well, if they want to do that they're going to have to get through me.」
JULES:「So I guess I don't have to worry then. I'll see you soon.」
narrator:Seth hangs up the phone, completely elated.
Seth:「She called, man! That's insane! She's practically begging for it. She said, "I can't wait for you to get here."」

Seth:「Whatever. Just act casual. And old. All we gotta do is find the booze and haul ass out of here.」
narrator:As they make their way down a hallway, a few people give them looks.
 INT. HOUSE PARTY - KITCHEN 68
 68
 They enter the kitchen, where Seth spots what they've been looking for. There are big buckets of ice filled with beer, coolers, wine, vodka, everything.
Seth:「Holy shit! Let's grab one of these buckets and go.」

DRIVER:「Mark! Dude! This is bullshit! Just chi-」
narrator:Mark steps on the Driver's hand.
DRIVER:「Ahhhh! Fuck!」
narrator:The Driver takes his hand out from under Mark's foot. He stands up.
DRIVER:「Fuck you, man. I'll fucking do this!」
narrator:Suddenly, Mark becomes enraged. He takes a big step forward and brutally KICKS the Driver square in the nuts!
 The Driver clutches his nuts and falls to the ground.
MARK:「Francis, you and your idiot friends stay the away from me and mine or I'll flipping shiv your ass!」
narrator:Mark and his buddies head back in, leading them towards Seth and Evan, who quickly duck back into the party.
 INT. HOUSE PARTY - CONTINUOUS 70
 70
 The frightened boys walk into one of the first rooms and hide in the corner. They have a hushed discussion.
EVAN:「Dude, let's slip out the back.」
Seth:「Why? Come on, we're here. Let's just hurry up and do this.」
EVAN:「You want to end up like that guy? Not me, I need my nuts.」
Seth:「We need this liquor!」

Seth:「Then why haven't you ever made a move, you pussy?」
EVAN:「Because I respect her! I'm not going to put that kind of unfair pressure on her.」
Seth:「These aren't girls, they're women! They need our dicks as much as we need their poons - and we all love liquor, so where's the fucking beef?!」
EVAN:「We're leaving, okay? These guys could kill us. You want to get killed for liquor?」
Seth:「You're really gonna bail on me?!」
EVAN:「rolls eyes) Jesus...」
narrator:Evan walks out the door.
Seth:「Okay, okay...if that's how you're going to be, then I'll get the booze on my own. And you're not getting any. And neither is Helen!」

FOGELL:「AHHH!!!」
narrator:The Homeless Guy RAMS straight into him and knocks both of them onto the kitchen floor!!!
 INT. BAILEY'S BAR AND GRILL - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 77
 77
 The kitchen staff watch in awe as the Homeless Guy wrestles Fogell on the ground.
FOGELL:「Ow!!! Please! Stop, you fucking bum!!!」
narrator:The Homeless Guy gets up, grabs Fogell and HURLS him into a rack of trays! He then turns to run, but SLIPS on a wet spot and SLAMS his head against the ground! The cops burst into the room to find Fogell panting on his knees with the Homeless Guy unconscious on the floor.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「McLovin! Nice!」
OFFICER SLATER:「I am buying you a beer, McLovin!」
narrator:INT. HOUSE PARTY - DANCING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 69
 69
 An R&amp;B slow jam plays as an exuberant Seth, a Mike's Hard Lemonade in one hand and the Woman's ass in the other as the dancing becomes increasingly sexual. As the song ends, the Woman moves on.
 Seth glances at the cooler and sees one more Mike's hard. He grabs it and puts it in his pocket. The bulge is apparent.
 Extremely pleased with himself,
 INT. HOUSE PARTY - ADJACENT ROOM 79
 79
 Seth walks into the adjacent room. There are a bunch of GUYS chilling on the couch, who all look at Seth oddly as he enters.
Seth:「Hey, wut up?」

narrator:Thinking he's busted, Seth quickly covers the bulge in his pocket.
Seth:「Uh...no. What? I don't know what you're talking about.」
GUY 1:「That shit you spilled all over yourself, idiot.」
Seth:「sincere) I didn't spill anything on myself.」
narrator:Seth checks himself to see what the guy is referring to.
Seth:「Oh shit.」
narrator:On Seth's upper thigh there is a red splotch about the size of a palm of a hand.
Seth:「What the hell is this?」
GUY 1:「Oh my lord. You were just dancing in there, right?」
Seth:「Yeah, so?」
narrator:The guys all burst out laughing.
GUY 1:「It's fucking blood.」
Seth:「Why would I get blood on my leg from--- (beat of realization) OH SHIT!」
narrator:The guys start laughing even harder.
Seth:「Some girl perioded on my fucking leg!」

Seth:「That is disgusting.」
narrator:Guy 1 gets up as Seth tries to cover up the mess with his shirt.
GUY 1:「I gotta show this to Bill.」
Seth:「Who's Bill? Don't show Bill! No! I can't believe this is happening!」
narrator:GUY 2 We should find who did it.
Seth:「This is un-fucking-believable. I have to look good tonight!」
narrator:GUY 2 Who'd you dance with?
Seth:「Who gives a shit? Fuck! These aren't even my pants!」
narrator:INT. HOUSE PARTY- ANOTHER ROOM 80
 80
 Guy 1 brings six more guys, including the Enormous Guy, into the room. He points out the stain Seth's pants. All the guys burst out laughing. Embarrassed and fearful of the attention, Seth starts making his way out of the room.
Seth:「Yeah. It's really funny, huh? Yuk it up, assholes.」
narrator:Seth works his way through another room full of people, shielding the splotch as best as he can.
 PARTY DUDE Dude! Check it out! That guy's having his period!
 Another group of people turn and laugh.
 PARTY GIRL He looks about the right age!

Seth:「to himself) I gotta clean this shit.」

narrator:INT. HOUSE PARTY BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS 84
 84
 Seth is scrubbing at the mark on his thigh, but it's not doing much. He stops for a moment to take a breather as he looks around the basement.
 He spots a fridge in the corner and walks over to it. As he opens it, a look of awe sweeps across his face. Every shelf is completely filled with beer.
Seth:「Jesus's tits!」

narrator:DUDE 2 I know you! Guys! I know that guy, he was at that party with me.
 DUDE 4 Who's he?
 DUDE 2 He's Jimmy's brother. The dude with the crazy raps, the one I told you about!
 They draw the coke into lines as Evan slowly heads for the door.
EVAN:「Oh no, that's not me either. Wrong guy, man. Sorry.」
narrator:Dude 3 gets up and blocks the door.
 DUDE 3 No. No, that's you, man. You are fully Jimmy's brother! You were just so messed up you can't remember.
EVAN:「Trust me, man. That wasn't me. I don't even listen to rap.」
narrator:DUDE 3 It was you! I know it! Come on! Rap! I've been telling these guys about you. Just give them one rap. Come on. Rap. Rap.
 They start doing the lines of coke. Evan is very afraid.
 INT. HOUSE PARTY BASEMENT - MOMENTS LATER 88
 88
 Seth is finishing pouring the beer bottles into the second detergent jug. There are about thirty empty beer bottles laying around Seth. He tightens the cap, picks up the two detergent jugs, and heads upstairs.
 INT. HOUSE PARTY - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 89
 89
 Seth emerges from the basement and heads towards the front door.
Seth:「I did it man. Peace out-tro.」

GUY 1:「There! That's the guy!」
narrator:Seth turns and sees Mark, the guy who assaulted the Driver, walking towards him. He notices Mark has a splotch on his leg, too.
Seth:「Hey! You got one, too! We're blood brothers.」
MARK:「Shut it, you little shitter! What the hell were you doing dancing with Jacinda?」
narrator:Horrified, Seth scrambles for excuses.
Seth:「I...I didn't dance with her! I don't even dance! Never even tried it!」
MARK:「point at Seth's splotch) Then where did that come from, asshole?」
Seth:「I don't know. Maybe me and you rubbed up against each other at some point. How am I supposed to know?」

EVAN:「Yo! I kill the whores of Vice City with my magnum 9/Take out the punk pigs with my Glok design/ Drink a fifth of Hennessy and get benign/Fuck all the bitches with their asses fine」
narrator:THE DUDES (cheering) Oh!!!
 SOME GUY bursts into the room.
 SOME GUY Dudes! Looks like a fight!
 Dude 3 does a line of coke and they all get up together and charge out of the room.
 INT. HOUSE PARTY - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS 91
 91
 There is a crowd gathered around Seth and Mark. The Enormous Guy and Mark's friends are gathered beside Mark.
Seth:「I swear to God it wasn't me!」
narrator:Evan and the four dudes who were doing coke walk into the room. Evan is shocked to see Seth at the center of so much commotion. Mark notices the detergent bottle in Seth's hands.
MARK:「And what the fuck is this?」
Seth:「It's nothing. It's detergent.」
MARK:「Yeah. And what are you doing with it?」
Seth:「I...uh, I got blood on my pants.」

narrator:Mark sees the bottle of MIKE'S HARD LEMONADE in Seth's pocket and takes it out. He looks at it, then looks at Seth with a look of death.
Seth:「I brought them from home.」

narrator:It flies towards Evan, who ducks, and nails Dude 1 in the head, glass exploding everywhere!!!
 DUDE 1 AAAHHHHHHH!!! FUCK!!!
 Dude 1 clutches his bloody head as the other Dudes charge at Mark! A full on brawl breaks out! Everyone starts fighting! Two of the Dudes beat on the Enormous Guy. They throw him into Evan.
 DUDE 3 Hold him!
EVAN:「What?」
narrator:DUDE 2 HOLD HIM!!!
 Evan reluctantly holds the Enormous Guy up as the two Dudes pound on him.
 ANGLE ON: Seth, cowering in the corner
 Mark runs at Seth and is about to punch him, when suddenly Dude 1 tackles him onto the kitchen island! Seth turns and faces Mark's girlfriend, JACINDA.
 JACINDA You motherfucker!
 She grabs a lamp, still plugged in, and swings it at Seth. She hits him square in the chest and the light bulb explodes!
Seth:「AHH!!!」
narrator:JACINDA You ruined my birthday!!! You humiliated me!!!
Seth:「You're the one who used my leg as a tampon!」

narrator:INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS 94
 94
 Michaels kicks it into drive and they peel out. Fogell shoves the unconscious Homeless Guy over.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Hah, hah! Eat it. So, dudes, what do we do now?」
narrator:Suddenly, the car radio goes off.
 RADIO We got a 257 at Fifth and Paysview, all units in the area report to Fifth and Paysview. Car 98. That's you. Do it. Seriously.
 The cops stop and listen.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Son-of-a-bitch. (picks up radio) Car 98, ten-four. (hangs up) Ya dumb whore. Ha!」
FOGELL:「What does that mean? We gonna get to shoot anyone?」
OFFICER SLATER:「I wish. Probably some lame house party. We'll drop you off after. Cool?」
FOGELL:「Yeah, man. Let's show these fuckers how we roll.」
narrator:EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - MOMENTS LATER 95
 95
 Seth and Evan are running down the sidewalk. They both slow to a stop to catch their breath. The party is nowhere in sight.
Seth:「wheezing heavily) ...huff...hufff...you fuckin' prick...」

EVAN:「What?」
Seth:「You...huff...bailed on me...huff...man.」

EVAN:「No I didn't!」
Seth:「Of course you did! We were supposed to do something and you left instead of doing it! That's the definition of bailing!」
EVAN:「If you said we should burn our dicks off and I didn't, that's not bailing!」
Seth:「It is bailing, if you promised to burn your dick off!」
EVAN:「What?!」
Seth:「The bottom line is
 you're a bailer. You just bailed on me,
 you bailed on me this morning when Terry
 spat on me, and you're bailing on me next
 year!」
EVAN:「Oh! Okay! There it is! It finally comes out!」
Seth:「We were supposed to go to college together! Since elementary school! What ever happened to that!」
EVAN:「What happened to that, is that you're too stupid to get into the schools I did!」
Seth:「I was not too stupid, I was too lazy!」

Seth:「Getting with a girl won't make you any less of a loser next year!」

OFFICER MICHAELS:「Oh shit. Shit, shit, SHIT!」
OFFICER SLATER:「I don't believe this is happening again.」
FOGELL:「frightened) Oh my god...is he...are you gonna make sure he's alright?」
OFFICER SLATER:「Okay, okay, we're gonna get out of the car now. McLovin, you stay right there.」
OFFICER MICHAELS:「That guy better not be dead.」
narrator:EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - CONTINUOUS 101
 101
 The cops get out of the car and walk over to a now sitting up Seth. He's dazed, but okay.
EVAN:「I'm sorry! You pushed me first.」
Seth:「I didn't push you into fucking oncoming traffic!」
narrator:The boys notice the cops.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Is everyone alright?」
Seth:「sarcastic) We're great.」
OFFICER SLATER:「Well, you should be careful boys. That's how accidents happen.」
Seth:「What, when cops drive like maniacs and hop the fucking curb?」

narrator:Evan looks like he's about to shit himself. The cops notice one of the detergent jugs in the middle of a puddle of beer. Slater dips his finger in rubs it against his gums like it was cocaine.
OFFICER SLATER:「Pabst. You boys been doing a bit of drinking?」
EVAN:「No officer. Not at all.」
OFFICER SLATER:「pointing to the other jug) Is that more beer you got over there?」
Seth:「Umm, no sir, detergent.」
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Detergent?」
Seth:「My clothes are dirty.」

narrator:CONTINUED) 81. 109
 CONTINUED:
 109
 He runs smack into a little red tent and trips onto it! KIDS inside the tent start screaming as flashlights turn on.
 KIDS (hysterical) Help/ It's a monster!/ Daddy!
 Fogell helps Seth get up. They try to run, but Seth is caught on the tent! He drags it a couple feet as the kids start clawing to get out.
 KIDS AAAHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!
 The zipper opens and a KID hops out. The Kid looks at Seth.
 KID AHHH!!! NO!!! DADDY!!!!
FOGELL:「Holy shit! Little kids!!!」
narrator:A little GIRL runs out and books it into the house. From inside the tent, another kid starts kicking at Seth.
Seth:「Ow!」

FOGELL:「Aaaahhh!!!!」
narrator:Fogell gets the door open and the two boys run into the alley.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS 110
 110
 They sprint down the alley. Seth coughs and wheezes, slowing down as he lugs the detergent. The Father enters the alley and sees the boys running. He throws his baseball bat. It sails through the air and nails Seth in the back! He falls.
Seth:「ARGGG!」

Seth:「Fucking run!」
narrator:They all run off down the street.
 EXT MAIN STREET 113
 113
 They turn a corner at the end of the block and continue running.
 They turn onto a main street and are exuberant at the sight of an oncoming bus. It stops at a nearby stop. They haul ass and make it on.
 INT. BUS - CONTINUOUS 114
 114
 Out of breath, the boys dig up change and put it in the toll box, then walk towards the back of the bus.
HOMELESS GUY:「O.S.) Hey! It's you!」
narrator:Fogell looks up and sees the Homeless Guy stumbling towards them, sucking back the bottom of the lost detergent bottle. The Homeless Guy sees they have bags full of booze.
HOMELESS GUY:「You got booze in the bag? Can you gimme some?」
Seth:「No! Fuck off! You already drank our detergent beer!」
HOMELESS GUY:「That was beer?! (to Fogell) Well, you little shit...ain't got no cop people to help you keep your booze...gimme it...」
narrator:The Homeless Nutcase reaches for the booze. Seth steps in front of him.
Seth:「Back off, or we'll kick the shit out of you!」

Seth:「So? Who cares? Just because he doesn't have a home doesn't mean he can be a lunatic!」

narrator:EXT. BUS - CONTINUOUS 115
 115
 Seth and Evan are looking at one another coldly as the bus pulls away. Fogell looks at some nearby street signs.
FOGELL:「ecstatic) Holy shit! We're like three blocks away! Best luck ever!」
narrator:EXT. STREET NEAR JULES' PARTY - A LITTLE LATER 116
 116
 The are walking up the street as Evan puts his clothes back on right-side out.
 EXT. JULES' PARTY - MOMENTS LATER 117
 117
 The guys walk up the front steps of Jules' house. They stand in front of the door.
FOGELL:「Fuck yeah, guys. We made it. Together and safe.」
EVAN:「I can't believe Helen's bottle broke.」
FOGELL:「I'm sure it'll be fine.」
Seth:「sarcastic) What's the difference? I thought you didn't need it anyways. I thought you were just going to tell her how you feel, you fucking pussy.」
EVAN:「Yeah? Well, good luck getting Jule's drunk enough to have sex with you.」
FOGELL:「What's wrong with you guys?」
Seth:「Shut up, Fogell. Never mind. Evan'll tell you next year.」

Seth:「Told me what?」
FOGELL:「Well we have to tell him now.」
EVAN:「Fuck, Fogell! You're a god damn idiot.」
FOGELL:「Well, he knows something's up.」
Seth:「Just say it!」
EVAN:「Shit. (beat) Seth, me and Fogell are rooming together next year.」
FOGELL:「I don't even get what the big deal is, to be honest.」
EVAN:「I didn't tell you because-」
Seth:「Save that shit for later. We've got shit to do.」

narrator:Everyone starts cheering! Seth sets it out on the kitchen table; it is an impressive array of inebriates.
Seth:「The bar is open!」
narrator:EVERYONE (ecstatically cheering) Yeah Seth!/Clutch!/Nice!/I can't believe it!/Seth did that?!/ Who the fuck is Seth?
 In the background, we see Evan and Fogell wander into the party as Jules approaches Seth.
JULES:「This is awesome. Thank you so much.」
Seth:「Sorry it was late.」
JULES:「Yeah. To be honest, people were starting to get seriously pissed off. Listen, I've got to go tell everyone the drinks are here. Don't go anywhere. Promise?」
Seth:「I'll be right here.」
narrator:Jules walks off.
 INT. JULES' KITCHEN
 - MOMENTS LATER 119
 119
 Tons of kids pour themselves drinks. Seth and about six other kids all have overflowing shots of Jaeger.
Seth:「To Jules!」

narrator:Everyone drinks and recoils from the taste. A random guy refills everyone's shot glasses.
 RANDOM
 GUY (pointing to
 Seth) Another one, but
 to you, man! Everyone, to this guy! Who
 the fuck are you, man?
Seth:「exuberant) Seth!」

narrator:RANDOM GUY To Seth!
 EVERYONE To Seth!
 They all drink.
Seth:「Hey! Let's do another one to me!」

narrator:Evan hears everyone giggle as Helen pulls him towards the house. Helen trips, just managing not to fall.
HELEN:「Careful...」
narrator:INT. JULES' DINING ROOM WITH DANCING PEOPLE - CONTINUOUS 130
 130
 Nicola and Fogell are standing in the corner of the room. Nicola is looking at Fogell's ID.
NICOLA:「McLovin! That's the funniest thing I've ever seen!」
FOGELL:「Yeah, I just thought it sounded old.」
narrator:They both laugh and their eyes meet.
 INT. JULES KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS 131
 131
 The party is in full swing and everyone is getting good and drunk. Jules walks up to Seth, who is clearly piss drunk.
JULES:「Hey, I'm back. I had to thank the peeps for comin' out.」
Seth:「really, really, drunk) Jules! The hostess with the most-est! The woman of the hour!」
narrator:Seth takes a swig of a beer.
Seth:「This party's blowin' my ass off! I want you to have a drink with me.」
narrator:Seth offers her a beer.

JULES:「No, thanks. I'm good. But, seriously, thanks for getting all the drinks. It really made the night.」
Seth:「It's just how I roll, Jules. No problems, no problems.」

Seth:「Uh...you know...I love talking, and conversing with you, you're so good at it, but I can't hear you. Could we just go on the...uh...balcony or something?」

narrator:EXT. JULES' FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS 134
 134
 Jules and Seth step out onto the front porch. There is no one else out there. The moment the door closes behind them, Seth turns to Jules and puts his hands on her hips. He stares into her eyes and moves in for the kiss.
 Jules instantly pulls back.
JULES:「Whoa! Whoa! Slow down.」
Seth:「What? What's wrong?」
JULES:「I'd...uh...prefer if we did this at some other time.」
Seth:「confused) But...there is no other time. School's up! This is the only time...what's wrong with now?」
JULES:「Well, you're drunk. Like, really, really drunk.」
Seth:「So? So are you.」
JULES:「I'm not drunk at all. I don't even drink.」
narrator:Seth is absolutely shocked. It takes his remarkably drunk mind a moment to process this information.
Seth:「You don't drink? But...but, you told me to get the liquor!」
JULES:「Yeah, I'm...uh...throwin' a party, remember?」
Seth:「You don't drink!?!」

Seth:「And you, don't want to...uh, you know...」
JULES:「Uh, no. Not right now, thank you very much.」
narrator:Seth looks at Jules and realizes that he's screwed up. His eyes start to water.
Seth:「Ahhh....man...fuck....」
narrator:Seth starts to cry.
JULES:「Are you crying?」
Seth:「No! Yeah, so what if I am? I'm a fucking idiot and it was my last chance! So I should be crying.」
JULES:「Last chance to do what?」
Seth:「To make you my girlfriend for the summer, okay? There! You're, like, the coolest person that's ever talked to me, and I thought we'd both be drunk, but...」
JULES:「What would me be drunk have anything to do with it?」
Seth:「Cause you'd never get with me in your right mind! Look at me! (beat) And now look at you!」

HELEN:「Oh God, oh God, oh...I'm puking...」
narrator:PUKE! Evan winces as she throws up again.
 INT. JULES PARENTS'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS 136
 136
 Fogell is laying on his back on the bed and Nicola is straddling him. They are kissing. Nicola sits up and takes Fogell's hand and starts sucking his fingers.
FOGELL:「I've got a boner.」
NICOLA:「Good. Do you have a condom?」
narrator:He pulls a condom out.
FOGELL:「And lube.」
narrator:He pulls out a little bottle of lube.
 EXT. JULES' FRONT PORCH 137
 137
 Seth and Jules are both seated on the stairs. Seth has his face in his hands. Jules is patting him on the back, but clearly feels awkward.
JULES:「Seth, you...uh...」
narrator:Seth looks up at her, drunk as hell, his eyes half-open.
JULES:「You didn't blow it, you're a-」
narrator:Seth blanks out and falls forward. BAM! He head-butts Jules in the face!
JULES:「AAAHHH!」
narrator:Jules clutches her eye as Seth slumps onto the patio floor, unconscious. She gets up, yelling in pain, as Seth opens his eyes.
JULES:「Seth! What the fuck!」
Seth:「help me...」

narrator:Jules storms into the house, leaving Seth lying on the front porch. He wiggles around a bit.
Seth:「...sorry...」
narrator:Seth passes out again. A few moments go by, when SUDDENLY a cop car pulls up in front of the house. Seth opens his eyes and sees the cops.
Seth:「Oh no.」
narrator:Two cops get out and start harassing two kids smoking a joint on the front lawn. One of them turns on their flashlight and Seth sees - it's OFFICER SLATER and MICHAELS!!!
Seth:「...Evan...」
narrator:INT. JULES' HOUSE - CONTINUOUS 138
 138
 Evan, sitting on the couch next to Miroki (Evan's partner from cooking class), drinking a bottle of tequila. He's absolutely smashed.
EVAN:「Life's bullshit, huh, Miroki?」
narrator:Suddenly, Seth bursts into the room and grabs Evan's shirt.
EVAN:「Fuckin' wax off, asshole!」
Seth:「No...I'm helping you, man! Just listen...」

narrator:KNOCK! KNOCK! KNOCK! The loud authoritative knocking echoes through the party and everyone looks to the door, knowing it can only mean one thing. Someone opens the door, revealing Officer Slater and Officer Michaels! They talk to whoever answered the door, oblivious of Evan and Seth.
OFFICER SLATER:「We had a complaint about the noise. It looks like you're having a nice little party here.」
OFFICER MICHAELS:「A nice little underage drinking party.」
narrator:Evan points at the cops.
EVAN:「Dude! Seth! It's the cops! The cops.」
Seth:「That's what I've been...! Here...」

FOGELL:「I didn't break the law! I'm not really even-」
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Sit your ass down and keep it down.」
OFFICER SLATER:「You're going to jail, fucko.」
narrator:Nicola, now dressed, emerges from the bathroom. She screams and runs out. They take Fogell's arms and handcuff him.
OFFICER SLATER:「(to Fogell) They don't take kindly to your type in jail, McLovin.」
narrator:EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS 141
 141
 Drunk, joyful, and out of breath, the boys stop running.
EVAN:「Dude. You saved me!」
Seth:「I totally did! I wanted to!」
EVAN:「Wanna sleep at my house, man? You're my best friend!」
Seth:「Yeah! Sleepover! Fuckin...you got pizza bagels still?」
EVAN:「Yeah!!!! Look what else I gots!」
narrator:Evan pulls a half bottle of tequila.
Seth:「Nice!」

OFFICER SLATER:「and by signing this you are officially saying that as we stopped you from being mugged, a crack-head stole our cruiser and did God knows what with it.」
FOGELL:「Of course. That mugger had nothing but murder in his eyes. I owe you my life.」
narrator:Fogell signs the pad.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Can we do this already?」
narrator:The cops and Fogell push the cruiser towards a small, but steep, hill. They shove it over the edge and watch it roll. It gains speed and smashes into a tree, shattering the windows and crushing the front of the car.
OFFICER MICHAELS:「Can we shoot at it?」
OFFICER SLATER:「I don't know, can you?」
narrator:They whip out their guns.
OFFICER SLATER:「I'm throwin' down the gauntlet. 50 bucks. Whoever hits the gas tank.」
OFFICER MICHAELS:「You are so fucking on.」
FOGELL:「Can I get a shot?」
narrator:Slater hands Fogell his gun. With a huge smile, Fogell raises the gun, aims it at the police cruiser, and BLASTS off round after round.
 INT. EVAN'S BASEMENT - NIGHT 147
 147
 Seth and Evan are lying in sleeping bags beside one another. The now empty bottle of Tequila lies between them. They are laughing very hard, still drunk off their asses.
Seth:「I can't believe she said that shit.」

narrator:They laugh harder.
EVAN:「And then you saved me, man! I fucking love you!」
Seth:「I fucking love you, too, man! I'm not embarrassed, I just love you!」
EVAN:「Why don't we say that more? It feels good! I love you more than my brother, man. Like, when you went away for Easter last year, I, like, missed you. You know?」
Seth:「I missed you, too. Come here, man.」
narrator:Seth grabs Evan and they hug.
Seth:「We'll always be friends. `Cause we love each other.」
narrator:They stop hugging and sit back down. They're laughter slows down and there is a moment of silence.
Seth:「Like, three weeks ago I was in you room and, like, you were taking a dump and...I saw your residence placement thingy. I totally saw you're living with Fogell. So, like-」
EVAN:「I'm sorry, man.」
Seth:「Don't be! Don't be! I'm sorry. I was being a bitch.」

Seth:「You know...I was pissed off I didn't get with Jules, but, like...we really got through a lot of our shit, you know?」
EVAN:「Yeah, me too. Like, yeah...at least we kind of came together, again.」
narrator:Beat.
EVAN:「Good night, Seth. I love you.」
Seth:「Night, Evan. Love you, man.」
narrator:INT. EVAN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - THE NEXT MORNING 148
 148
 Evan wakes up and looks over at Seth, who is also waking. They look at each other extremely awkwardly, almost as though they drunkenly had sex with each other last night.
EVAN:「Oh...uh...hey. Morning.」
Seth:「Uh...morning.」
narrator:They stare at each other, uncomfortable.
EVAN:「You sleep good?」
Seth:「Yeah. This is a really good pillow.」
EVAN:「Um...」
narrator:Seth looks at his watch.
Seth:「Maybe I should get going.」

Seth:「Oh...do you want to hang out? I was...gonna go to the mall, actually.」
EVAN:「Oh. Cool, well, can I come? I need a comforter. For college.」
Seth:「Yeah. That'd be nice. I'd really like that.」
narrator:INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - NEXT DAY 149
 149
 Evan is standing in the pants section of a department store. Seth walks out of the dressing room wearing jeans that are way too small.
EVAN:「Don't ask me. I don't give a shit if your pants look good.」
Seth:「Well, I need someone's opinion.」
EVAN:「Fine. They're way too small.」
Seth:「Yeah, but when I was wearing your dad's pants last night I realized that if I buy pants that are too small it'll encourage me to lose weight. And in tight pants chicks'll kind of see my dick a little.」
EVAN:「Yeah, the male camel toe look is really big this year.」
narrator:Seth goes back into the dressing room and wriggles out of the pants. He walks out.
Seth:「These pants suck. Let's the get the fuck out of here.」

HELEN:「Again, I'm so sorry. I can't believe I actually did that.」
JULES:「I feel sorry that I'm making you buy me a new one.」
HELEN:「I have to. It's puke.」
narrator:ANGLE ON: Seth and Evan
EVAN:「Holy shit!」
narrator:Helen looks like hell and Jules has a horrible black eye.
Seth:「Is that them?」
narrator:They stare at the two girls from afar.
EVAN:「Should we hide?」
narrator:Helen looks and notices them. She waves and points them out to Jules. Seth and Evan wave back. The girls get up and start to walk over.
Seth:「pretending to smile) Fuck that, man. I can't talk to her, look what I did to her!」
EVAN:「pretending to smile) Helen called me a pussy to my face! What am I going to say to her?」
narrator:The girls walk up to them.
 HELEN
 JULES Hi Evan, Seth.
 Hey guys.
 EVAN
 SETH Hi Helen, Hi Jules.
 Jules. Helen. Hi.
 Everyone looks very embarrassed.
Seth:「Oh my god. I'm so sorry, Jules.」

JULES:「It's okay.」
EVAN:「to Helen) How are you feeling?」
HELEN:「Not bad, but not great, how about you?」
Seth:「to Jules) That looks terrible. No! I mean, it doesn't look terrible, it looks-」
JULES:「Don't worry about it, Seth. It was an accident.」
EVAN:「to Helen) Did you have fun last night?」
JULES:「to Seth) Do you remember much?」
HELEN:「to Evan) I really don't remember much.」
Seth:「to Jules) Not really. I remember looking up, and you screaming at me. That's about it.」
narrator:Jules laughs.
HELEN:「to Evan) I didn't puke on you, did I?」
narrator:Evan laughs.
EVAN:「No, I dodged it. Whizzed right by me.」
Seth:「to Jules) But seriously, I acted like a fuckin' idiot last night. I'm really sorry, you didn't deserve that.」

HELEN:「to Evan) Yeah, I...um...I'm sorry, about all that. Thanks for being such a gentleman.」
narrator:There is a moment of silence.
Seth:「You look good with a black eye.」
narrator:They all chuckle a little.
JULES:「Thanks, smart guy. That's why I'm here. I have to go to Macy's to get a shitload of cover-up for the grad photo.」
Seth:「mortified) Oh man...」
HELEN:「Yeah, and I'm going to Linen Brothers to buy Jules a new comforter.」
EVAN:「Oh! I have to get a comforter too, for college.」
JULES:「flirtatiously, joking) So, you gonna come with me to Macy's and buy me my cover-up, or what?」
Seth:「Yes! Definitely. I'd love to. I had such bad acne last year, I became an expert on the stuff.」
EVAN:「You could get your college pants there.」
Seth:「Yeah, but wait...you drove me here, Evan drove me here, how do we-」

EVAN:「Maybe we can go eat after?」
HELEN:「Sweet.」
narrator:Seth and Evan look at each other, odd smiles on both their faces. They didn't blow it.
Seth:「So, uh, I'll call you later.」
