Shrek:「Once upon a time there was a lovely princess. But she had an enchantment upon her of a fearful sort which could only be broken by love's first kiss. She was locked away in a castle guarded by a terrible fire-breathing dragon. Many brave knights had attempted to free her from this dreadful prison, but non prevailed. She waited in the dragon's keep in the highest room of the tallest tower for her true love and true love's first kiss. (laughs) Like that's ever gonna happen. What a load of - (toilet flush)」

narrator:Allstar - by Smashmouth begins to play. Shrek goes about his day. While in a nearby town, the villagers get together to go after the ogre.
 NIGHT - NEAR SHREK'S HOME
 MAN1 Think it's in there?
 MAN2 All right. Let's get it!
 MAN1 Whoa. Hold on. Do you know what that thing can do to you?
 MAN3 Yeah, it'll grind your bones for it's bread.
 Shrek sneaks up behind them and laughs.
Shrek:「Yes, well, actually, that would be a giant. Now, ogres, oh they're much worse. They'll make a suit from your freshly peeled skin.」
narrator:MEN No!
Shrek:「They'll shave your liver. Squeeze the jelly from your eyes! Actually, it's quite good on toast.」
narrator:MAN1 Back! Back, beast! Back! I warn ya! (waves the torch at Shrek.)
 Shrek calmly licks his fingers and extinguishes the torch. The men shrink back away from him. Shrek roars very loudly and long and his breath extinguishes all the remaining torches until the men are in the dark.

Shrek:「This is the part where you run away. (The men scramble to get away. He laughs.) And stay out! (looks down and picks up a piece of paper. Reads.) "Wanted. Fairy tale creatures."(He sighs and throws the paper over his shoulder.)」

OLD WOMAN:「No, no, he talks! He does. (pretends to be Donkey) I can talk. I love to talk. I'm the talkingest damn thing you ever saw.」
HEAD GUARD:「Get her out of my sight.」
OLD WOMAN:「No, no! I swear! Oh! He can talk!」
narrator:The guards grab the old woman and she struggles with them. One of her legs flies out and kicks Tinkerbell out of Peter Pan's hands, and her cage drops on Donkey's head. He gets sprinkled with fairy dust and he's able to fly.
DONKEY:「Hey! I can fly!」
narrator:PETER PAN He can fly!
 LITTLE PIGS He can fly!
HEAD GUARD:「He can talk!」
DONKEY:「Ha, ha! That's right, fool! Now I'm a flying, talking donkey. You might have seen a housefly, maybe even a superfly but I bet you ain't never seen a donkey fly. Ha, ha! (the pixie dust begins to wear off) Uh-oh. (he begins to sink to the ground.)」
narrator:He hits the ground with a thud.
HEAD GUARD:「Seize him! (Donkey takes of running.) After him!」
narrator:GUARDS He's getting away! Get him! This way! Turn!
 Donkey keeps running and he eventually runs into Shrek. Literally. Shrek turns around to see who bumped into him. Donkey looks scared for a moment then he spots the guards coming up the path. He quickly hides behind Shrek.
HEAD GUARD:「You there. Ogre!」
Shrek:「Aye?」

Shrek:「Oh, really? You and what army?」
narrator:He looks behind the guard and the guard turns to look as well and we see that the other men have run off. The guard tucks tail and runs off. Shrek laughs and goes back about his business and begins walking back to his cottage.
DONKEY:「Can I say something to you? Listen, you was really, really, really somethin' back here. Incredible!」
Shrek:「Are you talkin' to...(he turns around and Donkey is gone) me? (he turns back around and Donkey is right in front of him.) Whoa!」
DONKEY:「Yes. I was talkin' to you. Can I tell you that you that you was great back here? Those guards! They thought they was all of that. Then you showed up, and bam! They was trippin' over themselves like babes in the woods. That really made me feel good to see that.」
Shrek:「Oh, that's great. Really.」
DONKEY:「Man, it's good to be free.」
Shrek:「Now, why don't you go celebrate your freedom with your own friends? Hmm?」

DONKEY:「But, uh, I don't have any friends. And I'm not goin' out there by myself. Hey, wait a minute! I got a great idea! I'll stick with you. You're mean, green, fightin' machine. Together we'll scare the spit out of anybody that crosses us.」
narrator:Shrek turns and regards Donkey for a moment before roaring very loudly.
DONKEY:「Oh, wow! That was really scary. If you don't mind me sayin', if that don't work, your breath certainly will get the job done, 'cause you definitely need some Tic Tacs or something, 'cause you breath stinks! You almost burned the hair outta my nose, just like the time...(Shrek covers his mouth but Donkey continues to talk, so Shrek removes his hand.) ...then I ate some rotten berries. I had strong gases leaking out of my butt that day.」
Shrek:「Why are you following me?」
DONKEY:「I'll tell you why. (singing) 'Cause I'm all alone, There's no one here beside me, My problems have all gone, There's no one to deride me, But you gotta have faith...」
Shrek:「Stop singing! It's no wonder you don't have any friends.」

DONKEY:「Wow. Only a true friend would be that cruelly honest.」
Shrek:「Listen, little donkey. Take a look at me. What am I?」
DONKEY:「looks all the way up at Shrek) Uh ...really tall?」
Shrek:「No! I'm an ogre! You know. "Grab your torch and pitchforks." Doesn't that bother you?」
DONKEY:「Nope.」
Shrek:「Really?」
DONKEY:「Really, really.」
Shrek:「Oh.」
DONKEY:「Man, I like you. What's you name?」
Shrek:「Uh, Shrek.」
DONKEY:「Shrek? Well, you know what I like about you, Shrek? You got that kind of I-don't-care-what-nobody-thinks-of-me thing. I like that. I respect that, Shrek. You all right. (They come over a hill and you can see Shrek's cottage.) Whoa! Look at that. Who'd want to live in place like that?」
Shrek:「That would be my home.」

DONKEY:「Oh! And it is lovely! Just beautiful. You know you are quite a decorator. It's amazing what you've done with such a modest budget. I like that boulder. That is a nice boulder. I guess you don't entertain much, do you?」
Shrek:「I like my privacy.」

Shrek:「Uh, what?」
DONKEY:「Can I stay with you, please?」
Shrek:「sarcastically) Of course!」
DONKEY:「Really?」
Shrek:「No.」

Shrek:「Okay! Okay! But one night only.」

Shrek:「What are you...? (Donkey hops up onto a chair.) No! No!」
DONKEY:「This is gonna be fun! We can stay up late, swappin' manly stories, and in the mornin' I'm makin' waffles.」
Shrek:「Oh!」
DONKEY:「Where do, uh, I sleep?」
Shrek:「irritated) Outside!」
DONKEY:「Oh, well, I guess that's cool. I mean, I don't know you, and you don't know me, so I guess outside is best, you know. Here I go. Good night. (Shrek slams the door.) (sigh) I mean, I do like the outdoors. I'm a donkey. I was born outside. I'll just be sitting by myself outside, I guess, you know. By myself, outside. I'm all alone...there's no one here beside me...」
narrator:SHREK'S COTTAGE - NIGHT
 Shrek is getting ready for dinner. He sits himself down and lights a candle made out of earwax. He begins to eat when he hears a noise. He stands up with a huff.
Shrek:「to Donkey) I thought I told you to stay outside.」

Shrek:「Got ya. (Grabs a mouse, but it escapes and lands on his shoulder.)」
narrator:GORDO I found some cheese. (bites Shrek's ear)
Shrek:「Ow!」
narrator:GORDO Blah! Awful stuff.
 BLIND MOUSE1 Is that you, Gordo?
 GORDO How did you know?
Shrek:「Enough! (he grabs the 3 mice) What are you doing in my house? (He gets bumped from behind and he drops the mice.) Hey! (he turns and sees the Seven Dwarves with Snow White on the table.) Oh, no, no, no. Dead broad off the table.」

narrator:DWARF Where are we supposed to put her? The bed's taken.
Shrek:「Huh?」
narrator:Shrek marches over to the bedroom and throws back the curtain. The Big Bad Wolf is sitting in the bed. The wolf just looks at him.
 BIG BAD WOLF What?
 TIME LAPSE
 Shrek now has the Big Bad Wolf by the collar and is dragging him to the front door.
Shrek:「I live in a swamp. I put up signs. I'm a terrifying ogre! What do I have to do get a little privacy? (He opens the front door to throw the Wolf out and he sees that all the collected Fairy Tale Creatures are on his land.) Oh, no. No! No!」

Shrek:「What are you doing in my swamp? (this echoes and everyone falls silent.)」

narrator:Gasps are heard all around. The 3 good fairies hide inside a tent.
Shrek:「All right, get out of here. All of you, move it! Come on! Let's go! Hapaya! Hapaya! Hey! Quickly. Come on! (more dwarves run inside the house) No, no! No, no. Not there. Not there. (they shut the door on him) Oh! (turns to look at Donkey)」
DONKEY:「Hey, don't look at me. I didn't invite them.」
narrator:PINOCCHIO Oh, gosh, no one invited us.
Shrek:「What?」
narrator:PINOCCHIO We were forced to come here.
Shrek:「flabbergasted) By who?」

Shrek:「heavy sigh) All right. Who knows where this Farquaad guy is?」
narrator:Everyone looks around at each other but no one answers.
DONKEY:「Oh, I do. I know where he is.」
Shrek:「Does anyone else know where to find him? Anyone at all?」
DONKEY:「Me! Me!」
Shrek:「Anyone?」
DONKEY:「Oh! Oh, pick me! Oh, I know! I know! Me, me!」
Shrek:「sigh) Okay, fine. Attention, all fairy tale things. Do not get comfortable. Your welcome is officially worn out. In fact, I'm gonna see this guy Farquaad right now and get you all off my land and back where you came from! (Pause. Then the crowd goes wild.) Oh! (to Donkey) You! You're comin' with me.」
DONKEY:「All right, that's what I like to hear, man. Shrek and Donkey, two stalwart friends, off on a whirlwind big-city adventure. I love it!
 singing) On the road again. Sing it with me, Shrek. I can't wait to get on the road again.」
Shrek:「What did I say about singing?」
DONKEY:「Can I whistle?」

Shrek:「No.」
DONKEY:「Can I hum it?」
Shrek:「All right, hum it.」

Shrek:「So, that must be Lord Farquaad's castle.」

DONKEY:「Uh-huh. That's the place.」
Shrek:「Do you think maybe he's compensating for something? (He laughs, but then groans as Donkey doesn't get the joke. He continues walking through the parking lot.)」

Shrek:「Hey, you! (The attendant, who is wearing a giant head that looks like Lord Farquaad, screams and begins running through the rows of rope to get to the front gate to get away from Shrek.) Wait a second. Look, I'm not gonna eat you. I just - - I just - - (He sighs and then begins walking straight through the rows. The attendant runs into a wall and falls down. Shrek and Donkey look at him then continue on into DuLoc.)」
narrator:DULOC
 They look around but all is quiet.
Shrek:「It's quiet. Too quiet. Where is everybody?」

Shrek:「grabs Donkey's tail and holds him still) No. No. No, no, no! No.」
narrator:They hear a trumpet fanfare and head over to the arena.
FARQUAAD:「Brave knights. You are the best and brightest in all the land. Today one of you shall prove himself...」
narrator:As Shrek and Donkey walk down the tunnel to get into the arena Donkey is humming the DuLoc theme song.
Shrek:「All right. You're going the right way for a smacked bottom.」
DONKEY:「Sorry about that.」
FARQUAAD:「That champion shall have the honor - - no, no - - the privilege to go forth and rescue the lovely Princess Fiona from the fiery keep of the dragon. If for any reason the winner is unsuccessful, the first runner-up will take his place and so on and so forth. Some of you may die, but it's a sacrifice I am willing to make. (cheers) Let the tournament begin! (He notices Shrek) Oh! What is that? It's hideous!」
Shrek:「turns to look at Donkey and then back at Farquaad) Ah, that's not very nice. It's just a donkey.」

FARQUAAD:「Indeed. Knights, new plan! The one who kills the ogre will be named champion! Have it him!」
narrator:MEN Get him!
Shrek:「Oh, hey! Now come on! Hang on now. (bumps into a table where there are mugs of beer)」
narrator:CROWD Go ahead! Get him!
Shrek:「holds up a mug of beer) Can't we just settle this over a pint?」
narrator:CROWD Kill the beast!
Shrek:「No? All right then. (drinks the beer) Come on!」
narrator:He takes the mug and smashes the spigot off the large barrel of beer behind him. The beer comes rushing out drenching the other men and wetting the ground. It's like mud now. Shrek slides past the men and picks up a spear that one of the men dropped. As Shrek begins to fight Donkey hops up onto one of the larger beer barrels. It breaks free of it's ropes and begins to roll. Donkey manages to squish two men into the mud. There is so much fighting going on here I'm not going to go into detail. Suffice to say that Shrek kicks butt.
DONKEY:「Hey, Shrek, tag me! Tag me!」

narrator:Shrek comes over and bangs a man's head up against Donkeys. Shrek gets up on the ropes and interacts with the crowd.
Shrek:「Yeah!」
narrator:A man tries to sneak up behind Shrek, but Shrek turns in time and sees him.
 WOMAN The chair! Give him the chair!
 Shrek smashes a chair over the guys back. Finally all the men are down. Donkey kicks one of them in the helmet, and the ding sounds the end of the match. The audience goes wild.
Shrek:「Oh, yeah! Ah! Ah! Thank you! Thank you very much! I'm here till Thursday. Try the veal! Ha, ha! (laughs)」
narrator:The laughter stops as all of the guards turn their weapons on Shrek.
HEAD GUARD:「Shall I give the order, sir?」
FARQUAAD:「No, I have a better idea. People of DuLoc, I give you our champion!」
Shrek:「What?」
FARQUAAD:「Congratulations, ogre. You're won the honor of embarking on a great and noble quest.」
Shrek:「Quest? I'm already in a quest, a quest to get my swamp back.」
FARQUAAD:「Your swamp?」

Shrek:「Yeah, my swamp! Where you dumped those fairy tale creatures!」
FARQUAAD:「Indeed. All right, ogre. I'll make you a deal. Go on this quest for me, and I'll give you your swamp back.」
Shrek:「Exactly the way it was?」

Shrek:「And the squatters?」
FARQUAAD:「As good as gone.」
Shrek:「What kind of quest?」
narrator:Time Lapse - Donkey and Shrek are now walking through the field heading away from DuLoc. Shrek is munching on an onion.
DONKEY:「Let me get this straight. You're gonna go fight a dragon and rescue a princess just so Farquaad will give you back a swamp which you only don't have because he filled it full of freaks in the first place. Is that about right?」
Shrek:「You know, maybe there's a good reason donkeys shouldn't talk.」
DONKEY:「I don't get it. Why don't you just pull some of that ogre stuff on him? Throttle him, lay siege to his fortress, grinds his bones to make your bread, the whole ogre trip.」
Shrek:「Oh, I know what. Maybe I could have decapitated an entire village and put their heads on a pike, gotten a knife, cut open their spleen and drink their fluids. Does that sound good to you?」

DONKEY:「Uh, no, not really, no.」
Shrek:「For your information, there's a lot more to ogres than people think.」
DONKEY:「Example?」
Shrek:「Example? Okay, um, ogres are like onions. (he holds out his onion)」
DONKEY:「sniffs the onion) They stink?」
Shrek:「Yes - - No!」
DONKEY:「They make you cry?」
Shrek:「No!」
DONKEY:「You leave them in the sun, they get all brown, start sproutin' little white hairs.」
Shrek:「No! Layers! Onions have layers. Ogres have layers! Onions have layers. You get it? We both have layers. (he heaves a sigh and then walks off)」
DONKEY:「trailing after Shrek) Oh, you both have layers. Oh. {Sniffs} You know, not everybody likes onions. Cake! Everybody loves cakes! Cakes have layers.」
Shrek:「I don't care... what everyone likes. Ogres are not like cakes.」

DONKEY:「You know what else everybody likes? Parfaits. Have you ever met a person, you say, "Let's get some parfait," they say, "Hell no, I don't like no parfait"? Parfaits are delicious.」
Shrek:「No! You dense, irritating, miniature beast of burden! Ogres are like onions! And of story. Bye-bye. See ya later.」

DONKEY:「Parfaits may be the most delicious thing on the whole damn planet.」
Shrek:「You know, I think I preferred your humming.」

DONKEY:「sniffs) Ohh! Shrek! Did you do that? You gotta warn somebody before you just crack one off. My mouth was open and everything.」
Shrek:「Believe me, Donkey, if it was me, you'd be dead. (sniffs) It's brimstone. We must be getting close.」

narrator:They climb up the side of the volcano/keep and look down. There is a small piece of rock right in the center and that is where the castle is. It is surrounded by boiling lava. It looks very foreboding.
Shrek:「Sure, it's big enough, but look at the location. (laughs...then the laugh turns into a groan)」
DONKEY:「Uh, Shrek? Uh, remember when you said ogres have layers?」
Shrek:「Oh, aye.」
DONKEY:「Well, I have a bit of a confession to make. Donkeys don't have layers. We wear our fear right out there on our sleeves.」
Shrek:「Wait a second. Donkeys don't have sleeves.」

DONKEY:「You know what I mean.」
Shrek:「You can't tell me you're afraid of heights.」

DONKEY:「No, I'm just a little uncomfortable about being on a rickety bridge over a boiling like of lava!」
Shrek:「Come on, Donkey. I'm right here beside ya, okay? For emotional support., we'll just tackle this thing together one little baby step at a time.」
DONKEY:「Really?」
Shrek:「Really, really.」

Shrek:「Just keep moving. And don't look down.」

DONKEY:「Okay, don't look down. Don't look down. Don't look down. Keep on moving. Don't look down. (he steps through a rotting board and ends up looking straight down into the lava) Shrek! I'm lookin' down! Oh, God, I can't do this! Just let me off, please!」
Shrek:「But you're already halfway.」
DONKEY:「But I know that half is safe!」
Shrek:「Okay, fine. I don't have time for this. You go back.」
DONKEY:「Shrek, no! Wait!」
Shrek:「Just, Donkey - - Let's have a dance then, shall me? (bounces and sways the bridge)」
DONKEY:「Don't do that!」
Shrek:「Oh, I'm sorry. Do what? Oh, this? (bounces the bridge again)」
DONKEY:「Yes, that!」
Shrek:「Yes? Yes, do it. Okay. (continues to bounce and sway as he backs Donkey across the bridge)」
DONKEY:「No, Shrek! No! Stop it!」
Shrek:「You said do it! I'm doin' it.」

DONKEY:「I'm gonna die. I'm gonna die. Shrek, I'm gonna die. (steps onto solid ground) Oh!」
Shrek:「That'll do, Donkey. That'll do. (walks towards the castle)」
DONKEY:「Cool. So where is this fire-breathing pain-in-the-neck anyway?」
Shrek:「Inside, waiting for us to rescue her. (chuckles)」

narrator:INSIDE THE CASTLE
DONKEY:「You afraid?」
Shrek:「No.」
DONKEY:「But...」
Shrek:「Shh.」

Shrek:「Donkey, two things, okay? Shut ... up. Now go over there and see if you can find any stairs.」
DONKEY:「Stairs? I thought we was lookin' for the princess.」
Shrek:「putting on a helmet) The princess will be up the stairs in the highest room in the tallest tower.」

Shrek:「I read it in a book once. (walks off)」

DONKEY:「I'm gonna take drastic steps. Kick it to the curb. Don't mess with me. I'm the stair master. I've mastered the stairs. I wish I had a step right here. I'd step all over it.」
narrator:ELSEWHERE
 Shrek spots a light in the tallest tower window.
Shrek:「Well, at least we know where the princess is, but where's the...」
DONKEY:「os) Dragon!」
narrator:Donkey gasps and takes off running as the dragon roars again. Shrek manages to grab Donkey out of the way just as the dragon breathes fire.
Shrek:「Donkey, look out! (he manages to get a hold of the dragons tail and holds on) Got ya!」
narrator:The dragon gets irritated at this and flicks it's tail and Shrek goes flying through the air and crashes through the roof of the tallest tower. Fiona wakes up with a jerk and looks at him lying on the floor.
DONKEY:「Oh! Aah! Aah!」
narrator:Donkey get cornered as the Dragon knocks away all but a small part of the bridge he's on.

DONKEY:「No. Oh, no, No! (the dragon roars) Oh, what large teeth you have. (the dragon growls) I mean white, sparkling teeth. I know you probably hear this all time from your food, but you must bleach, 'cause that is one dazzling smile you got there. Do I detect a hint of minty freshness? And you know what else? You're - - You're a girl dragon! Oh, sure! I mean, of course you're a girl dragon. You're just reeking of feminine beauty. (the dragon begins fluttering her eyes at him) What's the matter with you? You got something in your eye? Ohh. Oh. Oh. Man, I'd really love to stay, but you know, I'm, uh...(the dragon blows a smoke ring in the shape of a heart right at him, and he coughs) I'm an asthmatic, and I don't know if it'd work out if you're gonna blow smoke rings. Shrek! (the dragon picks him up with her teeth and carries him off) No! Shrek! Shrek! Shrek!」
narrator:FIONA'S ROOM
 Shrek groans as he gets up off the floor. His back is to Fiona so she straightens her dress and lays back down on the bed. She then quickly reaches over and gets the bouquet of flowers off the side table. She then lays back down and appears to be asleep. Shrek turns and goes over to her. He looks down at Fiona for a moment and she puckers her lips. Shrek takes her by the shoulders and shakes her away.
FIONA:「Oh! Oh!」
Shrek:「Wake up!」

FIONA:「What?」
Shrek:「Are you Princess Fiona?」
FIONA:「I am, awaiting a knight so bold as to rescue me.」
Shrek:「Oh, that's nice. Now let's go!」
FIONA:「But wait, Sir Knight. This be-ith our first meeting. Should it not be a wonderful, romantic moment?」
Shrek:「Yeah, sorry, lady. There's no time.」

Shrek:「You've had a lot of time to plan this, haven't you?」

Shrek:「I don't think so.」

Shrek:「Uh, Shrek.」

Shrek:「Thanks!」

Shrek:「It's on my to-do list. Now come on! (takes off running and drags Fiona behind him.)」

Shrek:「Yeah, right before they burst into flame.」

FIONA:「That's not the point. (Shrek suddenly stops and she runs into him.) Oh! (Shrek ignores her and heads for a wooden door off to the side.) Wait. Where are you going? The exit's over there.」
Shrek:「Well, I have to save my ass.」
FIONA:「What kind of knight are you?」
Shrek:「One of a kind. (opens the door into the throne room)」

DONKEY:「os) Slow down. Slow down, baby, please. I believe it's healthy to get to know someone over a long period of time. Just call me old-fashioned. (laughs worriedly) (we see him up close and from a distance as Shrek sneaks into the room) I don't want to rush into a physical relationship. I'm not emotionally ready for a commitment of, uh, this - - Magnitude really is the word I'm looking for. Magnitude- - Hey, that is unwanted physical contact. Hey, what are you doing? Okay, okay. Let's just back up a little and take this one step at a time. We really should get to know each other first as friends or pen pals. I'm on the road a lot, but I just love receiving cards - - I'd really love to stay, but - - Don't do that! That's my tail! That's my personal tail. You're gonna tear it off. I don't give permission - - What are you gonna do with that? Hey, now. No way. No! No! No, no! No. No, no, no. No! Oh!」
narrator:Shrek grabs a chain that's connected to the chandelier and swings toward the dragon. He misses and he swings back again. He looks up and spots that the chandelier is right above the dragons head. He pulls on the chain and it releases and he falls down and bumps Donkey out of the way right as the dragon is about to kiss him. Instead the dragon kisses Shreks' butt. She opens her eyes and roars. Shrek lets go of the chain and the chandelier falls onto her head, but it's too big and it goes over her head and forms a sort of collar for her. She roars again and Shrek and Donkey take off running. Very 'Matrix' style. Shrek grabs Donkey and then grabs Princess Fiona as he runs past her.
DONKEY:「Hi, Princess!」
FIONA:「It talks!」
Shrek:「Yeah, it's getting him to shut up that's the trick.」

narrator:They all start screaming as the dragon gains on them. Shrek spots a descending slide and jumps on. But unfortunately there is a crack in the stone and it hits Shrek right in the groin. His eyes cross and as he reaches the bottom of the slide he stumbles off and walks lightly.
Shrek:「Oh!」

Shrek:「Okay, you two, heard for the exit! I'll take care of the dragon.」
narrator:Shrek grabs a sword and heads back toward the interior of the castle. He throws the sword down in between several overlapping chain links. The chain links are attached to the chandelier that is still around the dragons neck.
Shrek:「echoing) Run!」

FIONA:「The battle is won. You may remove your helmet, good Sir Knight.」
Shrek:「Uh, no.」
FIONA:「Why not?」
Shrek:「I have helmet hair.」
FIONA:「Please. I would'st look upon the face of my rescuer.」
Shrek:「No, no, you wouldn't - - 'st.」
FIONA:「But how will you kiss me?」
Shrek:「What? (to Donkey) That wasn't in the job description.」

FIONA:「What is so funny?」
Shrek:「Let's just say I'm not your type, okay?Fiona: Of course, you are. You're my rescuer. Now - - Now remove your helmet.
 Look. I really don't think this is a good idea.」
FIONA:「Just take off the helmet.」
Shrek:「I'm not going to.」
FIONA:「Take it off.」
Shrek:「No!」
FIONA:「Now!」
Shrek:「Okay! Easy. As you command. Your Highness. (takes off his helmet)」
FIONA:「You- - You're a- - an ogre.」
Shrek:「Oh, you were expecting Prince Charming.」

FIONA:「Well, yes, actually. Oh, no. This is all wrong. You're not supposed to be an ogre.」
Shrek:「Princess, I was sent to rescue you by Lord Farquaad, okay? He is the one who wants to marry you.」

Shrek:「Good question. You should ask him that when we get there.」
FIONA:「But I have to be rescued by my true love, not by some ogre and his- - his pet.」
DONKEY:「Well, so much for noble steed.」
Shrek:「You're not making my job any easier.」

FIONA:「I'm sorry, but your job is not my problem. You can tell Lord Farquaad that if he wants to rescue me properly, I'll be waiting for him right here.」
Shrek:「Hey! I'm no one's messenger boy, all right? (ominous) I'm a delivery boy. (he swiftly picks her up and swings her over his shoulder like she was a sack of potatoes)」
FIONA:「You wouldn't dare. Put me down!」
Shrek:「Ya comin', Donkey?」
DONKEY:「I'm right behind ya.」
FIONA:「Put me down, or you will suffer the consequences! This is not dignified! Put me down!」
narrator:WOODS
 A little time has passed and Fiona has calmed down. She just hangs there limply while Shrek carries her.
DONKEY:「Okay, so here's another question. Say there's a woman that digs you, right, but you don't really like her that way. How do you let her down real easy so her feelings aren't hurt, but you don't get burned to a crisp and eaten?」

FIONA:「You just tell her she's not your true love. Everyone knows what happens when you find your...(Shrek drops her on the ground) Hey! The sooner we get to DuLoc the better.」
DONKEY:「You're gonna love it there, Princess. It's beautiful!」
FIONA:「And what of my groom-to-be? Lord Farquaad? What's he like?」
Shrek:「Let me put it this way, Princess. Men of Farquaad's stature are in short supply. (he and Donkey laugh)」

Shrek:「Yeah, well, maybe you're right, Princess. But I'll let you do the "measuring" when you see him tomorrow.」
FIONA:「looks at the setting sun) Tomorrow? It'll take that long? Shouldn't we stop to make camp?」
Shrek:「No, that'll take longer. We can keep going.」
FIONA:「But there's robbers in the woods.」
DONKEY:「Whoa! Time out, Shrek! Camp is starting to sound good.」
Shrek:「Hey, come on. I'm scarier than anything we're going to see in this forest.」

narrator:MOUNTAIN CLIFF
 Shrek has found a cave that appears to be in good order. He shoves a stone boulder out of the way to reveal the cave.
Shrek:「Hey! Over here.」

FIONA:「No, no, it's perfect. It just needs a few homey touches.」
Shrek:「Homey touches? Like what? (he hears a tearing noise and looks over at Fiona who has torn the bark off of a tree.)」

DONKEY:「You want me to read you a bedtime story? I will.」
FIONA:「os) I said good night!」
narrator:Shrek looks at Donkey for a second and then goes to move the boulder back in front of the entrance to the cave with Fiona still inside.
DONKEY:「Shrek, What are you doing?」
Shrek:「laughs) I just- - You know - - Oh, come on. I was just kidding.」
narrator:LATER THAT NIGHT
 Shrek and Donkey are sitting around a campfire. They are staring up into the sky as Shrek points out certain star constellations to Donkey.
Shrek:「And, uh, that one, that's Throwback, the only ogre to ever spit over three wheat fields.」
DONKEY:「Right. Yeah. Hey, can you tell my future from these stars?」
Shrek:「The stars don't tell the future, Donkey. They tell stories. Look, there's Bloodnut, the Flatulent. You can guess what he's famous for.」
DONKEY:「I know you're making this up.」
Shrek:「No, look. There he is, and there's the group of hunters running away from his stench.」

DONKEY:「That ain't nothin' but a bunch of little dots.」
Shrek:「You know, Donkey, sometimes things are more than they appear. Hmm? Forget it.」

Shrek:「Our swamp?」
DONKEY:「You know, when we're through rescuing the princess.」
Shrek:「We? Donkey, there's no "we". There's no "our". There's just me and my swamp. The first thing I'm gonna do is build a ten-foot wall around my land.」
DONKEY:「You cut me deep, Shrek. You cut me real deep just now. You know what I think? I think this whole wall thing is just a way to keep somebody out.」
Shrek:「No, do ya think?」
DONKEY:「Are you hidin' something?」
Shrek:「Never mind, Donkey.」
DONKEY:「Oh, this is another one of those onion things, isn't it?」
Shrek:「No, this is one of those drop-it and leave-it alone things.」

Shrek:「Why do you want to talk about it?」
DONKEY:「Why are you blocking?」
Shrek:「I'm not blocking.」
DONKEY:「Oh, yes, you are.」
Shrek:「Donkey, I'm warning you.」
DONKEY:「Who you trying to keep out?」
Shrek:「Everyone! Okay?」
DONKEY:「pause) Oh, now we're gettin' somewhere. (grins)」
narrator:At this point Fiona pulls the 'door' away from the entrance to the cave and peaks out. Neither of the guys see her.
Shrek:「Oh! For the love of Pete! (gets up and walks over to the edge of the cliff and sits down)」
DONKEY:「What's your problem? What you got against the whole world anyway?」
Shrek:「Look, I'm not the one with the problem, okay? It's the world that seems to have a problem with me. People take one look at me and go. "Aah! Help! Run! A big, stupid, ugly ogre!" They judge me before they even know me. That's why I'm better off alone.」
DONKEY:「You know what? When we met, I didn't think you was just a big, stupid, ugly ogre.」

Shrek:「Yeah, I know.」

Shrek:「Well, there's, um, Gabby, the Small and Annoying.」

narrator:Fiona puts the door back.
Shrek:「That's the moon.」

FARQUAAD:「Ah. Perfect.」
narrator:Farquaad looks down at his bare chest and pulls the sheet up to cover himself as though Fiona could see him as he gazes sheepishly at her image in the mirror.
 MORNING
 Fiona walks out of the cave. She glances at Shrek and Donkey who are still sleeping. She wanders off into the woods and comes across a blue bird. She begins to sing. The bird sings along with her. She hits higher and higher notes and the bird struggles to keep up with her. Suddenly the pressure of the note is too big and the bird explodes. Fiona looks a little sheepish, but she eyes the eggs that the bird left behind. Time lapse, Fiona is now cooking the eggs for breakfast. Shrek and Donkey are still sleeping. Shrek wakes up and looks at Fiona. Donkey's talking in his sleep.
DONKEY:「quietly) Mmm, yeah, you know I like it like that. Come on, baby. I said I like it.」
Shrek:「Donkey, wake up. (shakes him)」
DONKEY:「Huh? What?」
Shrek:「Wake up.」
DONKEY:「What? (stretches and yawns)」
FIONA:「Good morning. Hm, how do you like your eggs?」

DONKEY:「Oh, good morning, Princess!」
narrator:Fiona gets up and sets the eggs down in front of them.
Shrek:「What's all this about?」
FIONA:「You know, we kind of got off to a bad start yesterday. I wanted to make it up to you. I mean, after all, you did rescue me.」
Shrek:「Uh, thanks.」
narrator:Donkey sniffs the eggs and licks his lips.
FIONA:「Well, eat up. We've got a big day ahead of us. (walks off)」
narrator:LATER
 They are once again on their way. They are walking through the forest. Shrek belches.
DONKEY:「Shrek!」
Shrek:「What? It's a compliment. Better out than in, I always say. (laughs)」
DONKEY:「Well, it's no way to behave in front of a princess.」
narrator:Fiona belches
FIONA:「Thanks.」
DONKEY:「She's as nasty as you are.」
Shrek:「chuckles) You know, you're not exactly what I expected.」
FIONA:「Well, maybe you shouldn't judge people before you get to know them.」

narrator:She smiles and then continues walking, singing softly. Suddenly from out of nowhere, a man swings down and swoops Fiona up into a tree.
ROBIN HOOD:「La liberte! Hey!」
Shrek:「Princess!」

ROBIN HOOD:「Be still, mon cherie, for I am you savior! And I am rescuing you from this green...(kisses up her arm while Fiona pulls back in disgust)...beast.」
Shrek:「Hey! That's my princess! Go find you own!」

narrator:Another fight sequence begins and Fiona gives a karate yell and then proceeds to beat the crap out of the Merry Men. There is a very interesting 'Matrix' moment here when Fiona pauses in mid-air to fix her hair. Finally all of the Merry Men are down, and Fiona begins walking away.
FIONA:「Uh, shall we?」
Shrek:「Hold the phone. (drops Donkey and begins walking after Fiona) Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on now. Where did that come from?」
FIONA:「What?」
Shrek:「That! Back there. That was amazing! Where did you learn that?」
FIONA:「Well...(laughs) when one lives alone, uh, one has to learn these things in case there's a...(gasps and points) there's an arrow in your butt!」
Shrek:「What? (turns and looks) Oh, would you look at that? (he goes to pull it out but flinches because it's tender)」

FIONA:「Oh, no. This is all my fault. I'm so sorry.」
DONKEY:「walking up) Why? What's wrong?」
FIONA:「Shrek's hurt.」
DONKEY:「Shrek's hurt. Shrek's hurt? Oh, no, Shrek's gonna die.」
Shrek:「Donkey, I'm okay.」
DONKEY:「You can't do this to me, Shrek. I'm too young for you to die. Keep you legs elevated. Turn your head and cough. Does anyone know the Heimlich?」
FIONA:「Donkey! Calm down. If you want to help Shrek, run into the woods and find me a blue flower with red thorns.」
DONKEY:「Blue flower, red thorns. Okay, I'm on it. Blue flower, red thorns. Don't die Shrek. If you see a long tunnel, stay away from the light!」
narrator:SHREK &amp; FIONA Donkey!
DONKEY:「Oh, yeah. Right. Blue flower, red thorns. (runs off)」
Shrek:「What are the flowers for?」
FIONA:「like it's obvious) For getting rid of Donkey.」
Shrek:「Ah.」

FIONA:「Now you hold still, and I'll yank this thing out. (gives the arrow a little pull)」
Shrek:「jumps away) Ow! Hey! Easy with the yankin'.」

Shrek:「No, it's tender.」
FIONA:「Now, hold on.」
Shrek:「What you're doing is the opposite of help.」
FIONA:「Don't move.」
Shrek:「Look, time out.」

Shrek:「os) Ow!」

narrator:THE FOREST PATH
Shrek:「Ow! Not good.」
FIONA:「Okay. Okay. I can nearly see the head. (Shrek grunts as she pulls) It's just about...」
Shrek:「Ow! Ohh! (he jerks and manages to fall over with Fiona on top of him)」
DONKEY:「Ahem.」
Shrek:「throwing Fiona off of him) Nothing happend. We were just, uh - -」
DONKEY:「Look, if you wanted to be alone, all you had to do was ask. Okay?」
Shrek:「Oh, come on! That's the last thing on my mind. The princess here was just- - (Fiona pulls the arrow out) Ugh! (he turns to look at Fiona who holds up the arrow with a smile) Ow!」
DONKEY:「Hey, what's that? (nervous chuckle) That's...is that blood?」

narrator:Donkey faints. Shrek walks over and picks him up as they continue on their way.
 There is a montage of scenes as the group heads back to DuLoc. Shrek crawling up to the top of a tree to make it fall over a small brook so that Fiona won't get wet. Shrek then gets up as Donkey is just about to cross the tree and the tree swings back into it's upright position and Donkey flies off. Shrek swatting and a bunch of flies and mosquitoes. Fiona grabs a nearby spiderweb that's on a tree branch and runs through the field swinging it around to catch the bugs. She then hands it to Shrek who begins eating like it's a treat. As he walks off she licks her fingers. Shrek catching a toad and blowing it up like a balloon and presenting it to Fiona. Fiona catching a snake, blowing it up, fashioning it into a balloon animal and presenting it to Shrek. The group arriving at a windmill that is near DuLoc.
 WINDMILL
Shrek:「There it is, Princess. Your future awaits you.」
FIONA:「That's DuLoc?」
DONKEY:「Yeah, I know. You know, Shrek thinks Lord Farquaad's compensating for something, which I think means he has a really...(Shrek steps on his hoof) Ow!」

Shrek:「Um, I, uh- - I guess we better move on.」
FIONA:「Sure. But, Shrek? I'm - - I'm worried about Donkey.」
Shrek:「What?」

FIONA:「kneels to look him in the eyes) That's what they always say, and then next thing you know, you're on your back. (pause) Dead.」
Shrek:「You know, she's right. You look awful. Do you want to sit down?」

Shrek:「Who's hungry? I'll find us some dinner.」

FIONA:「I'll get the firewood.」
DONKEY:「Hey, where you goin'? Oh, man, I can't feel my toes! (looks down and yelps) I don't have any toes! I think I need a hug.」
narrator:SUNSET
 Shrek has built a fire and is cooking the rest of dinner while Fiona eats.
FIONA:「Mmm. This is good. This is really good. What is this?」
Shrek:「Uh, weed rat. Rotisserie style.」

Shrek:「Well, they're also great in stews. Now, I don't mean to brag, but I make a mean weed rat stew. (chuckles)」
narrator:Fiona looks at DuLoc and sighs.
FIONA:「I guess I'll be dining a little differently tomorrow night.」
Shrek:「Maybe you can come visit me in the swamp sometime. I'll cook all kind of stuff for you. Swamp toad soup, fish eye tartare - - you name it.」
FIONA:「smiles) I'd like that.」
narrator:They smiles at each other.
Shrek:「Um, Princess?」
FIONA:「Yes, Shrek?」
Shrek:「I, um, I was wondering...are you...(sighs) Are you gonna eat that?」
DONKEY:「chuckles) Man, isn't this romantic? Just look at that sunset.」
FIONA:「jumps up) Sunset? Oh, no! I mean, it's late. I-It's very late.」
Shrek:「What?」
DONKEY:「Wait a minute. I see what's goin' on here. You're afraid of the dark, aren't you?」

FIONA:「Yes! Yes, that's it. I'm terrified. You know, I'd better go inside.」
DONKEY:「Don't feel bad, Princess. I used to be afraid of the dark, too, until - - Hey, no, wait. I'm still afraid of the dark.」
narrator:Shrek sighs
FIONA:「Good night.」
Shrek:「Good night.」
narrator:Fiona goes inside the windmill and closes the door. Donkey looks at Shrek with a new eye.
DONKEY:「Ohh! Now I really see what's goin' on here.」
Shrek:「Oh, what are you talkin' about?」
DONKEY:「I don't even wanna hear it. Look, I'm an animal, and I got instincts. And I know you two were diggin' on each other. I could feel it.」
Shrek:「You're crazy. I'm just bringing her back to Farquaad.」
DONKEY:「Oh, come on, Shrek. Wake up and smell the pheromones. Just go on in and tell her how you feel.」

Shrek:「I- - There's nothing to tell. Besides, even if I did tell her that, well, you know - - and I'm not sayin' I do 'cause I don't - - she's a princess, and I'm - -」
DONKEY:「An ogre?」
Shrek:「Yeah. An ogre.」
DONKEY:「Hey, where you goin'?」
Shrek:「To get... move firewood. (sighs)」

DONKEY:「Princess, how 'bout if you don't marry Farquaad?」
FIONA:「I have to. Only my true love's kiss can break the spell.」
DONKEY:「But, you know, um, you're kind of an orge, and Shrek - - well, you got a lot in common.」
FIONA:「Shrek?」
narrator:OUTSIDE
 Shrek is walking towards the windmill with a sunflower in his hand.
Shrek:「to himself) Princess, I - - Uh, how's it going, first of all? Good? Um, good for me too. I'm okay. I saw this flower and thought of you because it's pretty and - - well, I don't really like it, but I thought you might like it 'cause you're pretty. But I like you anyway. I'd - - uh, uh...(sighs) I'm in trouble. Okay, here we go.」

FIONA:「No! You can't breathe a word. No one must ever know.」
DONKEY:「What's the point of being able to talk if you gotta keep secrets?」
FIONA:「Promise you won't tell. Promise!」
DONKEY:「All right, all right. I won't tell him. But you should. (goes outside) I just know before this is over, I'm gonna need a whole lot of serious therapy. Look at my eye twitchin'.」
narrator:Fiona comes out the door and watches him walk away. She looks down and spots the sunflower. She picks it up before going back inside the windmill.
 MORNING
 Donkey is asleep. Shrek is nowhere to be seen. Fiona is still awake. She is plucking petals from the sunflower.
FIONA:「I tell him, I tell him not. I tell him, I tell him not. I tell him. (she quickly runs to the door and goes outside) Shrek! Shrek, there's something I want...(she looks and sees the rising sun, and as the sun crests the sky she turns back into a human.)」
narrator:Just as she looks back at the sun she sees Shrek stomping towards her.
FIONA:「Shrek. Are you all right?」
Shrek:「Perfect! Never been better.」

FIONA:「I - - I don't - - There's something I have to tell you.」
Shrek:「You don't have to tell me anything, Princess. I heard enough last night.」

FIONA:「You heard what I said?」
Shrek:「Every word.」
FIONA:「I thought you'd understand.」
Shrek:「Oh, I understand. Like you said, "Who could love a hideous, ugly beast?"」

FIONA:「But I thought that wouldn't matter to you.」
Shrek:「Yeah? Well, it does. (Fiona looks at him in shock. He looks past her and spots a group approaching.) Ah, right on time. Princess, I've brought you a little something.」
narrator:Farquaad has arrived with a group of his men. He looks very regal sitting up on his horse. You would never guess that he's only like 3 feet tall. Donkey wakes up with a yawn as the soldiers march by.
DONKEY:「What'd I miss? What'd I miss? (spots the soldiers) (muffled) Who said that? Couldn't have been the donkey.」
FARQUAAD:「Princess Fiona.」
Shrek:「As promised. Now hand it over.」

FARQUAAD:「Oh, anxious, are you? You're right. The sooner, the better. There's so much to do! There's the caterer, the cake, the band, the guest list. Captain, round up some guests! (a guard puts Fiona on the back of his horse)」
FIONA:「Fare-thee-well, ogre.」
narrator:Farquaad's whole party begins to head back to DuLoc. Donkey watches them go.
DONKEY:「Shrek, what are you doing? You're letting her get away.」
Shrek:「Yeah? So what?」
DONKEY:「Shrek, there's something about her you don't know. Look, I talked to her last night, She's - -」
Shrek:「I know you talked to her last night. You're great pals, aren't ya? Now, if you two are such good friends, why don't you follow her home?」
DONKEY:「Shrek, I - - I wanna go with you.」
Shrek:「I told you, didn't I? You're not coming home with me. I live alone! My swamp! Me! Nobody else! Understand? Nobody! Especially useless, pathetic, annoying, talking donkeys!」
DONKEY:「But I thought - -」

Shrek:「Yeah. You know what? You thought wrong! (stomps off)」
DONKEY:「Shrek.」
narrator:Montage of different scenes. Shrek arriving back home. Fiona being fitted for the wedding dress. Donkey at a stream running into the dragon. Shrek cleaning up his house. Fiona eating dinner alone. Shrek eating dinner alone.
 SHREK'S HOME
 Shrek is eating dinner when he hears a sound outside. He goes outside to investigate.
Shrek:「Donkey? (Donkey ignores him and continues with what he's doing.) What are you doing?」

Shrek:「Well, yeah. But the wall's supposed to go around my swamp, not through it.」

DONKEY:「It is around your half. See that's your half, and this is my half.」
Shrek:「Oh! Your half. Hmm.」

Shrek:「Back off!」
DONKEY:「No, you back off.」
Shrek:「This is my swamp!」
DONKEY:「Our swamp.」
Shrek:「grabs the tree branch Donkey is working with) Let go, Donkey!」
DONKEY:「You let go.」
Shrek:「Stubborn jackass!」
DONKEY:「Smelly ogre.」
Shrek:「Fine! (drops the tree branch and walks away)」
DONKEY:「Hey, hey, come back here. I'm not through with you yet.」
Shrek:「Well, I'm through with you.」
DONKEY:「Uh-uh. You know, with you it's always, "Me, me, me!" Well, guess what! Now it's my turn! So you just shut up and pay attention! You are mean to me. You insult me and you don't appreciate anything that I do! You're always pushing me around or pushing me away.」
Shrek:「Oh, yeah? Well, if I treated you so bad, how come you came back?」
DONKEY:「Because that's what friends do! They forgive each other!」

Shrek:「Oh, yeah. You're right, Donkey. I forgive you... for stabbin' me in the back! (goes into the outhouse and slams the door)」
DONKEY:「Ohh! You're so wrapped up in layers, onion boy, you're afraid of your own feelings.」
Shrek:「os) Go away!」

Shrek:「os) Love me? She said I was ugly, a hideous creature. I heard the two of you talking.」

Shrek:「opens the door and comes out) She wasn't talking about me? Well, then who was she talking about?」
DONKEY:「Uh-uh, no way. I ain't saying anything. You don't wanna listen to me. Right? Right?」
Shrek:「Donkey!」
DONKEY:「No!」
Shrek:「Okay, look. I'm sorry, all right? (sigh) I'm sorry. I guess I am just a big, stupid, ugly ogre. Can you forgive me?」

Shrek:「Right. Friends?」
DONKEY:「Friends.」
Shrek:「So, um, what did Fiona say about me?」

DONKEY:「What are you asking me for? Why don't you just go ask her?」
Shrek:「The wedding! We'll never make it in time.」
DONKEY:「Ha-ha-ha! Never fear, for where, there's a will, there's a way and I have a way. (whistles)」
narrator:Suddenly the dragon arrives overhead and flies low enough so they can climb on.
Shrek:「Donkey?」

narrator:They both laugh.
Shrek:「Aw, come here, you. (gives Donkey a noogie)」

narrator:PRIEST People of DuLoc, we gather here today to bear witness to the union....
FIONA:「eyeing the setting sun) Um-」
narrator:PRIEST ...of our new king...
FIONA:「Excuse me. Could we just skip ahead to the "I do's"?」
FARQUAAD:「chuckles and then motions to the priest to indulge Fiona) Go on.」
narrator:COURTYARD
 Some guards are milling around. Suddenly the dragon lands with a boom. The guards all take off running.
DONKEY:「to Dragon) Go ahead, HAVE SOME FUN. If we need you, I'll whistle. How about that? (she nods and goes after the guards) Shrek, wait, wait! Wait a minute! You wanna do this right, don't you?」
Shrek:「at the Church door) What are you talking about?」
DONKEY:「There's a line you gotta wait for. The preacher's gonna say, "Speak now or forever hold your peace." That's when you say, "I object!"」
Shrek:「I don't have time for this!」
DONKEY:「Hey, wait. What are you doing? Listen to me! Look, you love this woman, don't you?」
Shrek:「Yes.」

DONKEY:「You wanna hold her?」
Shrek:「Yes.」
DONKEY:「Please her?」
Shrek:「Yes!」
DONKEY:「singing James Brown style) Then you got to, got to try a little tenderness. (normal) The chicks love that romantic crap!」
Shrek:「All right! Cut it out. When does this guy say the line?」

narrator:Outside
Shrek:「What do you see?」

Shrek:「Oh, for the love of Pete!」

narrator:INSIDE CHURCH
Shrek:「running toward the alter) I object!」

FIONA:「Shrek?」
narrator:The whole congregation gasps as they see Shrek.
FARQUAAD:「Oh, now what does he want?」
Shrek:「to congregation as he reaches the front of the Church) Hi, everyone. Havin' a good time, are ya? I love DuLoc, first of all. Very clean.」
FIONA:「What are you doing here?」
Shrek:「Really, it's rude enough being alive when no one wants you, but showing up uninvited to a wedding...
 Fiona! I need to talk to you.」
FIONA:「Oh, now you wanna talk? It's a little late for that, so if you'll excuse me - -」
Shrek:「But you can't marry him.」
FIONA:「And why not?」
Shrek:「Because- - Because he's just marring you so he can be king.」

Shrek:「He's not your true love.」

Shrek:「Well, I - - Uh - - I mean - -」
FARQUAAD:「Oh, this is precious. The ogee has fallen in love with the princess! Oh, good Lord. (laughs)」
narrator:The prompter card guy holds up a card that says 'Laugh'. The whole congregation laughs.
FARQUAAD:「An ogre and a princess!」
FIONA:「Shrek, is this true?」
FARQUAAD:「Who cares? It's preposterous! Fiona, my love, we're but a kiss away from our "happily ever after." Now kiss me! (puckers his lips and leans toward her, but she pulls back.)」
FIONA:「looking at the setting sun) "By night one way, by day another." (to Shrek) I wanted to show you before.」
narrator:She backs up and as the sun sets she changes into her ogre self. She gives Shrek a sheepish smile.
Shrek:「Well, uh, that explains a lot. (Fiona smiles)」
FARQUAAD:「Ugh! It's disgusting! Guards! Guards! I order you to get that out of my sight now! Get them! Get them both!」
narrator:The guards run in and separate Fiona and Shrek. Shrek fights them.

Shrek:「No, no!」
FIONA:「Shrek!」
FARQUAAD:「This hocus-pocus alters nothing. This marriage is binding, and that makes me king! See? See?」
FIONA:「No, let go of me! Shrek!」
Shrek:「No!」

Shrek:「Get out of my way! Fiona! Arrgh!」
FARQUAAD:「I'll make you regret the day we met. I'll see you drawn and quartered! You'll beg for death to save you!」
FIONA:「No, Shrek!」
FARQUAAD:「hold a dagger to Fiona's throat) And as for you, my wife...」
Shrek:「Fiona!」

narrator:Shrek manages to get a hand free and he whistles.
FARQUAAD:「I will have order! I will have perfection! I will have - - (Donkey and the dragon show up and the dragon leans down and eats Farquaad) Aaaah! Aah!」
DONKEY:「All right. Nobody move. I got a dragon here, and I'm not afraid to use it. (The dragon roars.) I'm a donkey on the edge!」
narrator:The dragon belches and Farquaad's crown flies out of her mouth and falls to the ground.
DONKEY:「Celebrity marriages. They never last, do they?」
narrator:The congregation cheers.
DONKEY:「Go ahead, Shrek.」
Shrek:「Uh, Fiona?」
FIONA:「Yes, Shrek?」
Shrek:「I - - I love you.」
FIONA:「Really?」
Shrek:「Really, really.」

narrator:Suddenly Fiona's eyes open wide. She's consumed by the spell and then is slowly lowered to the ground.
Shrek:「going over to her) Fiona? Fiona. Are you all right?」
FIONA:「standing up, she's still an ogre) Well, yes. But I don't understand. I'm supposed to be beautiful.」
Shrek:「But you ARE beautiful.」
