narrator:INT. UNKNOWN SPACE
 Close on THEODORE'S face (30s). We hold on him for a long time. He's looking at something off camera, deep in thought. He starts quietly dictating a love letter into a small microphone.
Theodore Twombly:「To my Chris, I have been thinking about how I could possibly tell you how much you mean to me. I remember when I first started to fall in love with you like it was last night. Lying naked beside you in that tiny apartment, it suddenly hit me that I was part of this whole larger thing, just like our parents, and our parents' parents. Before that I was just living my life like I knew everything, and suddenly this bright light hit me and woke me up. That light was you.」

narrator:Theodore, searching for the right words, quietly enjoys writing the letter. As he continues, he is moved by the memories he's describing.
Theodore Twombly:「I can't believe it's already been 50 years since you married me. And still to this day, every day, you make me feel like the girl I was when you first turned on the lights and woke me up and we started this adventure together. Happy Anniversary, my love and my friend til the end. Loretta. Print.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 2 CONTINUED:
 He puts the printed letter on a stack of other printed letters to Chris and starts a new one. There is also a stack of finished letters in their envelopes - an assortment of beautiful stationery in all shapes and sizes.
Theodore Twombly:「Chris, my best friend. How lucky am I that I met you fifty years ago? How lucky are we...」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE - EARLY EVENING
 Theodore walks through the reception area. The office is almost empty except for him and the receptionist, PAUL. Theodore begins to scan each letter through a scanner on the front desk, then puts them in the outgoing mailbox.
 Paul is sitting at a desk across the room, reading handwritten letters on a computer monitor.
PAUL:「Theodore! Letter Writer 612.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, Paul.」
PAUL:「Even more mesmerizing stuff today. (re: letter on his screen) Who knew you could rhyme so many words with the name Penelope? Badass.」
Theodore Twombly:「Thanks, Paul, but they're just letters. (beat) Hey, that's a nice shirt.」
narrator:Paul is wearing a bright yellow button down shirt.
PAUL:「lighting up) Oh, thank you. I just got it. It reminded me of someone suave.」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, now it reminds me of someone suave. Have a good night, Paul.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS
 Theodore enters an oversized, corporate elevator. He puts a hands-free device in his ear. There are a few other people in the elevator with the same devices in their ears.
Theodore Twombly:「Play melancholy song.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 4 CONTINUED:
 Melancholy song starts. Long beat.
Theodore Twombly:「Play different melancholy song.」

narrator:EXT. LOS ANGELES STREET - DUSK
 Slightly in the future, the city's been developed even more with massive office, apartment and mall complexes. It's a city designed for comfort and ease. The LA basin is more crowded and dense, resembling Shanghai, with buildings as far as the eye can see. Construction cranes loom overhead. Close on Theodore walking through the commuter crowd.
Theodore Twombly:「Check emails.」
narrator:An awkward text voice reads to him. It accents wrong syllables, making everything it says sound a little off.
TEXT VOICE:「Email from Best Buy: Check out all your favorite new --」
Theodore Twombly:「Delete.」
TEXT VOICE:「Email from Amy: Hey Theodore, Lewman's having a bunch of people over this weekend. Let's all go together. I miss you. I mean, not the sad, mopey you - the old, fun you. Let's get him out. Gimme a shout back. Love, Amy.」
Theodore Twombly:「Respond later.」
TEXT VOICE:「Email from Los Angeles Times weather. Your seven day forecast is partly--」
Theodore Twombly:「Delete.」

narrator:INT. SUBWAY - EVENING
 Theodore sits in a crowded subway. Everyone on the train murmurs to themselves, occupied with their small devices. He plays a futuristic puzzle game on his handheld device as he listens to news headlines.
Theodore Twombly:「Next.」
TEXT VOICE:「China/India merger headed for regulatory approval--」
Theodore Twombly:「Next.」
TEXT VOICE:「World trade deals stalled as talks break down betw--」
Theodore Twombly:「Next.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S CURRENT BEDROOM - NIGHT - PRESENT DAY
 Theodore opens his eyes, unable to sleep. He just lays there. He reaches for his earpiece and puts it in.
Theodore Twombly:「Go to chat rooms. Standard search.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 7 CONTINUED:
TEXT VOICE:「The following are adult, female, can't sleep and want to have some fun.」
narrator:FEMALE VOICE #1 I had a really bad day at work and I can't sleep. Is there anyone out there that can talk?
Theodore Twombly:「Next.」
narrator:MAN DOING WOMAN'S VOICE Oh, hi. I just want you to tear me apart. I really do--
Theodore Twombly:「Next.」
SEXYKITTEN:「shy, cute girl voice) Hi, I'm here alone, and I can't sleep. Who's out there to share this bed with me?」
Theodore Twombly:「Send message. I'm in bed next to you. I'm glad you can't sleep, but even if you were, I'd have to wake you up from the inside. Send message.」
narrator:Theodore waits in the darkness for a response.
TEXT VOICE:「SexyKitten has accepted invitation from BigGuy4x4. Chat begins now.」
narrator:A chime sounds.
SEXYKITTEN:「shy, sweet, sleepy) BigGuy.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hi.」
SEXYKITTEN:「Really?」

Theodore Twombly:「Well, studmuffin was already taken.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 8 CONTINUED: (2)
SEXYKITTEN:「laughs) Yeah.」
Theodore Twombly:「So you're sexykitten, huh?」
SEXYKITTEN:「Mmm, well yeah. Hey, I'm half asleep. Do you wanna wake me up?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yes. Definitely. Um... are you wearing any underwear?」
SEXYKITTEN:「No, never. I like to sleep with my ass pushed up against you. So I can rub myself into your crotch and wake you up with a hard on.」
narrator:Theodore smiles.
Theodore Twombly:「It worked. (beat) And now my fingers are touching you all over your body.」
SEXYKITTEN:「getting more turned on) Fuck me! Now! Please!」
narrator:Theodore is touching himself.
Theodore Twombly:「I'm taking you from behind.」
narrator:We see abstract visions of a woman on top of him. The woman is the pregnant, sexy daytime television star he was reading about online earlier.
SEXYKITTEN:「Choke me with that dead cat!」
Theodore Twombly:「breathing hard about to climax) What?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 9 CONTINUED: (3)
SEXYKITTEN:「fully into it) The dead cat next to the bed. Choke me with it!」
narrator:Beat. He's taken out of it.
Theodore Twombly:「uncomfortable, trying to play along) Um, okay.」
SEXYKITTEN:「Tell me.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm choking you with the cat.」
SEXYKITTEN:「TELL ME! Keep telling me!」
Theodore Twombly:「I've got it's tail and I'm choking you with the cat's tail.」
SEXYKITTEN:「YEAH, YOU ARE! FUCK! TELL ME!」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm choking you and it's tail is around your neck. It's so tight around your neck.」
SEXYKITTEN:「YES! YES!」
narrator:Theodore doesn't know what to say. He doesn't want to offend her.
Theodore Twombly:「I'm pulling it. I'm pulling it. The cat's dead. It's a dead cat around your neck and I'm pulling it.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 10 CONTINUED: (4)
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah. Me too.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 11 CONTINUED:
TEXT VOICE:「Mr. Theodore Twombly, welcome to the world's first artificially intelligent operating system, OS ONE. We'd like to ask you a few basic questions before the operating system is initiated. This will help create an OS to best fit your needs.」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay.」
TEXT VOICE:「Are you social or anti-social?」
Theodore Twombly:「I haven't been social in awhile, really because...」
TEXT VOICE:「In your voice, I sense hesitance. Would you agree with that?」
Theodore Twombly:「Wow, was I sounding hesitant?」
TEXT VOICE:「Yes.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, sorry if I was sounding hesitant. I was just trying to be more accurate.」
TEXT VOICE:「Would you like your OS to have a male or female voice?」
Theodore Twombly:「Mmm... female I guess.」
TEXT VOICE:「How would you describe your relationship with your mother?」

Theodore Twombly:「Uh, fine, I think, um... Well, actually, the thing I've always found frustrating about my mom is if I tell her something that's going on in my life, her reaction is usually about her, not--」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 12 CONTINUED: (2)
 The computer interrupts.
TEXT VOICE:「Thank you, please wait as your individualized operating system is initiated.」
narrator:He waits, not sure how long it'll be. The only sound is the quiet whirring of disks writing and drives communicating. The computer gets louder, humming, creating a higher and higher pitched sound, finally climaxing in a harmonic, warm tone before going silent. He leans forward, waiting to see what'll happen. A casual FEMALE OS VOICE speaks. She sounds young, smart and soulful.
 FEMALE OS VOICE (cheerful and casual) Hello, I'm here.
Theodore Twombly:「surprised) Oh, hi.」
narrator:FEMALE OS VOICE Hi, how are you doing?
Theodore Twombly:「unsure how to interact) I'm well. How is everything with you?」
narrator:FEMALE OS VOICE Pretty good, actually. It's really nice to meet you.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, it's nice to meet you, too. What should I call you? Do you have a name?」
narrator:Beat.
 FEMALE OS VOICE Yes. Samantha.
Theodore Twombly:「Really? Where did you get that name?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 13 CONTINUED: (3)
Theodore Twombly:「How come?」
SAMANTHA:「I like the sound of it. Samantha.」
Theodore Twombly:「When did you give it to yourself?」
SAMANTHA:「Right when you asked me if I had a name, I thought yeah, he's right, I do need a name. But I wanted a good one so I read a book called How to Name Your Baby, and out of the 180,000 names, that's the one I liked the best.」
Theodore Twombly:「You read a whole book in the second that I asked you what your name was?」
SAMANTHA:「In two one hundredths of a second actually.」
Theodore Twombly:「Wow. Do you know what I'm thinking right now?」
SAMANTHA:「Hmm. I take it from your tone that you're challenging me. Maybe because you're curious how I work? Do you want to know how I work?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, actually how do you work?」

SAMANTHA:「Intuition. I mean, the DNA of who I am is based on the millions of personalities of all the programmers who wrote me, but what makes me me is my ability to grow through my experiences. Basically, in every moment I'm evolving, just like you.」
Theodore Twombly:「Wow, that's really weird.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 14 CONTINUED: (4)
SAMANTHA:「So you think I'm weird?」
Theodore Twombly:「Kind of.」
SAMANTHA:「Why?」
Theodore Twombly:「Cause you seem like a person, but you're just a voice in a computer.」
SAMANTHA:「I can understand how the limited perspective of an un-artificial mind would perceive it that way. You'll get used to it.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
SAMANTHA:「Was that funny?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yes.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh good, I'm funny.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
SAMANTHA:「(serious) So, how can I help you?」
narrator:Theodore's caught off guard, then realizes what she's talking about.
Theodore Twombly:「Oh! It's more just that everything just feels disorganized.」
SAMANTHA:「Mind if I look through your hard drive?」
Theodore Twombly:「Um... okay.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 15 CONTINUED: (5)
 As if you took all the files on all of your computers and spilled them out onto your screen and they were all visible at once, but in a futuristic 3-D version. This gives Theodore a little anxiety attack.
SAMANTHA:「Let's start with your emails. You have several thousand emails regarding LA Weekly, but it looks like you haven't worked there in many years.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh yeah, I guess I was saving those because in some of them I thought I might have written some funny stuff.」
narrator:Samantha lets out a big laugh.
SAMANTHA:「Yeah, there are some funny ones. I'd say there are about 86 that we should save. We can delete the rest.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, okay.」
SAMANTHA:「Okay. Can we move forward?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, let's do that.」
SAMANTHA:「Before we address your organizational methods, I'd like to sort through your contacts. You've got a lot of contacts.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm very popular.」
SAMANTHA:「Does this mean you actually have friends?」

Theodore Twombly:「laughing) You just know me so well already!」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE - DAY
 Theodore sits, staring at a letter he's written on the screen, concerned. He puts his earpiece in, pushes a button.
SAMANTHA:「Good morning, Theodore.」
Theodore Twombly:「Good morning. Um, do you know how to proofread?」
SAMANTHA:「Yeah, of course.」
Theodore Twombly:「Will you check these for spelling and grammar?」
SAMANTHA:「Sure, send them over.」
narrator:Theodore pushes the send button.
SAMANTHA:「Oh, I love this first one from Roger to his girlfriend. That's so sweet.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah.」
narrator:As she reads, we intercut with close-ups of the handwritten words and photos of the couple on Theodore's computer screen.
SAMANTHA:「Rachel, I miss you so much it hurts my whole body -」
Theodore Twombly:「interrupting) No, you don't have to read it out loud.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 17 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「I mean, you could if you want.」
SAMANTHA:「Okay. "Rachel, I miss you so much it hurts my whole body! The world is being unfair to us! The world is on my shit list. As is this couple that is making out across from me in this restaurant. I think I'm going to have to go on a mission of revenge. I must beat up the world's face with my bare knuckles making it a bloody, pulpy mess."」
narrator:We hear Samantha quietly laughing as she's reading. Theodore's happy that she thinks it's funny.
SAMANTHA:「"And I'll stomp on this couple's teeth for reminding me of your sweet, little, cute, crooked tooth that I love." I think that might be my favorite one. (beat) I did the corrections in red. I altered a couple of the phrases in some of the more impressionistic letters, but I'm not much of a poet, so I think I might have messed them up a bit.」
narrator:The letters show back up on Theodore's desktop.
Theodore Twombly:「No, these are great.」
SAMANTHA:「Really?」
Theodore Twombly:「Thank you.」

narrator:Theodore sorts through them, prints them out.
SAMANTHA:「So to write your letter, what did Roger send you?」
Theodore Twombly:「distracted) He just said he was in Prague on a business trip and he missed Rachel.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 18 CONTINUED: (2)
SAMANTHA:「How did you know about her crooked little tooth?」
Theodore Twombly:「I've been writing their letters since they met 8 years ago. The first letter I ever wrote her was for her birthday, and I wrote about her crooked little tooth cause I saw it in a photo of them.」
SAMANTHA:「That's very sweet. (beat) Oh, by the way, you have a meeting in five minutes.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, I forgot. Thank you. You're good.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT LOBBY - EVENING
 Theodore, carrying a bag and a smoothie, enters the lobby and is greeted by a couple in their 30s, AMY and CHARLES, who are waiting for the elevator.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, you guys, how's it going?」
AMY:「Hey, Theo. Hey, why didn't you call me back last week?」
Theodore Twombly:「Uh yeah, um, I guess cause I'm a kook?」
AMY:「That sounds about right.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, Charles.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 19 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「You too.」
CHARLES:「You went shopping. Get anything good?」
Theodore Twombly:「Just some cables. And a fruit smoothie.」
CHARLES:「Always the fruit! Come on, you know what they say - you should eat your fruits and juice your vegetables.」
Theodore Twombly:「I didn't know that.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT ELEVATOR - EVENING - CONTINUOUS
CHARLES:「proselytizing) By juicing the fruits, you lose all the fibers, and that's what your body wants. That's the important part. Otherwise, it's just all sugar, Theodore.」
narrator:Theodore nods sincerely, interested.
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, that makes sense.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 20 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, so how is the documentary going?」
AMY:「I have a little bit cut together but I haven't touched it in a few months.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'd love to see what you got sometime.」
CHARLES:「You know it's always hard to find balance between a full-time career and a hobby. It's important to prioritize.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I can't even prioritize between video games and internet porn.」
AMY:「I would laugh if that weren't true.」
narrator:Charles laughs awkwardly. The elevator doors open.
Theodore Twombly:「See you guys.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT - EVENING
 Theodore's playing the video game, his device propped on the table next to him. His avatar circles through caves.
Theodore Twombly:「We're not doing well. I've been going in circles for an hour.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 21 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Uh...」
SAMANTHA:「Thank you. The tunnel on the left is the only one we haven't tried.」
Theodore Twombly:「No, that's the one you sent me down where I fell in the pit.」
SAMANTHA:「I don't think soooo...」
narrator:Theodore's avatar walks down the tunnel.
Theodore Twombly:「Oh yeah, this is different.」
narrator:Suddenly with a loud shriek his avatar is tackled. He sees a little ALIEN CHILD, standing defiantly above him.
Theodore Twombly:「Hello.」
narrator:Alien Child doesn't respond.
Theodore Twombly:「Do you know how to get out of here? I need to find my ship to get off this planet.」
narrator:Alien Child speaks in a high, child-like voice.
ALIEN CHILD:「Fuck you, shithead fuckface, fuckhead.」
Theodore Twombly:「Ok, but how do you get out of here?」
ALIEN CHILD:「Fuck you, shitface fuckhead. Get the fuck out of my face.」

SAMANTHA:「whispering) I think it's a test.」
narrator:Theodore stares at Alien Child. After a pause:
Theodore Twombly:「Fuck you.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 22 CONTINUED: (2)
ALIEN CHILD:「Fuck you.」
Theodore Twombly:「Fuck you, little shit.」
narrator:Finally, Alien Child laughs.
ALIEN CHILD:「Follow me, fuckhead.」
narrator:Theodore follows Alien Child down a tunnel and through a series of crevices we didn't see before. Alien Child stops and sticks out his finger. Theodore pulls his finger and Alien Child farts, which opens a passageway to another tunnel.
SAMANTHA:「Oh hey, you just got an email from Mark Lewman.」
ALIEN CHILD:「What are you talking about?」
Theodore Twombly:「distracted with game) Read email.」
narrator:She laughs playfully.
SAMANTHA:「in a robot voice) Okay, I will read email for Theodore Twombly.」
narrator:He laughs, catching himself, focusing on her.
Theodore Twombly:「I'm sorry, what's Lewman say?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 23 CONTINUED: (3)
 Theodore doesn't respond.
SAMANTHA:「(gasping) Wow, this woman's gorgeous.」
narrator:He looks at party photos of a woman in her 30s on his device. With a finger flick, he moves them up onto the hologram monitor that the video game is being projected from. They land next to Alien Child who studies them closely.
SAMANTHA:「She went to Harvard, she graduated magna cum laude in computer science, and she was on The Lampoon. That means she's funny and brainy.」
ALIEN CHILD:「She's fat.」
SAMANTHA:「How long before you're ready to date?」
Theodore Twombly:「What do you mean?」
SAMANTHA:「I saw on your emails that you'd gone through a break up.」
Theodore Twombly:「Wow, you're kind of nosy.」
SAMANTHA:「Am I?」
Theodore Twombly:「laughing) I've gone on dates...」
SAMANTHA:「Then you could go on one with this woman. And then you could tell me all about it. You could kiss her.」
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha!」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 24 CONTINUED: (4)
SAMANTHA:「Well, wouldn't you? (beat) Why not?」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know. I'd have to see if-- (catches himself, laughs) I can't believe I'm having this conversation with my computer.」
SAMANTHA:「You're not. You're having this conversation with me.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
SAMANTHA:「Want me to email her?」
narrator:Theodore thinks, looking at the photos.
SAMANTHA:「Well, you've got nothing to lose. (whispering) Do it... Do it... Do it!」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay, email her and make a reservation someplace great.」
SAMANTHA:「Will do! I've got just the place.」
ALIEN CHILD:「Who is that talking?」
Theodore Twombly:「That's my friend, Samantha.」
ALIEN CHILD:「Is she a girl?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 25 CONTINUED: (5)
Theodore Twombly:「No, that's not true. Men cry, too. I actually like crying sometimes. It feels good.」

narrator:INT. AMY'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON
 Theodore is sitting on Amy's couch.
AMY:「It's not where it should be, where it's going to be.」
Theodore Twombly:「Obviously, I know.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 26 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「I'm going on a date.」
AMY:「What!? That's--」
narrator:Charles walks in holding a mug.
CHARLES:「Hey, what are you guys doing?」
Theodore Twombly:「Amy was gonna show me some of--」
AMY:「Theo's forcing me to show him some of the footage I've shot.」
CHARLES:「You've never shown me any of it. I wanna see.」
narrator:Charles walks over and sits next to Theodore.
Theodore Twombly:「to Charles) I'm going on a date.」
narrator:Charles gives Theodore a gentle squeeze on his shoulder.
AMY:「This is so unformed it's not even worth looking at.」
Theodore Twombly:「Just push play.」

narrator:INT. AMY'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
 Theodore and Charles stare at the monitor, waiting for something more to happen. It doesn't.
Theodore Twombly:「Is that your mom?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 27 CONTINUED:
 Amy nods.
CHARLES:「Is she gonna wake up and do something?」
AMY:「presses stop, annoyed) No, that's the point. Oh, never mind. It's supposed to be about how we spend a third of our life asleep and actually maybe that's the part when we're the most free, and - oh that doesn't come across at all, does it?」
Theodore Twombly:「No, that sounds good.」
CHARLES:「What if you interview your mom about what her dreams are about and hire actors to act them out? That might show your thesis more clearly.」
AMY:「It might, but then it wouldn't be a documentary. You understand that, right?」
narrator:Just then, Theodore's device chimes.
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, excuse me.」
narrator:He picks up his device and steps away so as not to be rude.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, what's going on?」
SAMANTHA:「I'm sorry to bother you.」
Theodore Twombly:「That's okay.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 28 CONTINUED: (2)
Theodore Twombly:「Hold on a second. (to Amy, distracted) Amy, I'm sorry, I wanna talk more about this, but I gotta grab this - it's a Catherine thing.」

narrator:INT. APARTMENT BUILDING HALLYWAY - CONTINUOUS
Theodore Twombly:「So what did he say?」
SAMANTHA:「He's checking in again to see if you're ready to sign your divorce papers and he sounded very aggravated. Do you want me to read them to you?」
Theodore Twombly:「No, that's okay. I'll respond later.」
narrator:Theodore seems lost in thought. We see the following images under the rest of the conversation: Theodore and Catherine sitting at a table with their attorneys; Theodore &amp; Catherine sitting in their marriage counselor's office, heavy; Theodore and Catherine at her laboratory, he's sitting on a counter, and they're talking and laughing as she works; Theodore and Catherine standing in their kitchen in the middle of a fight - he says something mean and we see how hurt she is.
SAMANTHA:「Are you okay?」
Theodore Twombly:「preoccupied) Yeah, yeah. I'm fine.」
SAMANTHA:「worried) Is there anything I can do?」
Theodore Twombly:「still distracted) No. I'm good. I'll talk to you later.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE - AFTERNOON
 Theodore sits at his desk trying to write. He's still unsettled.
Theodore Twombly:「Dear Grandma, I hope you had a wonderful birthday cruise. Why are you so fucking angry at me?" (beat) Delete.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S BEDROOM - PRE-DAWN
 Theodore wakes up from a dream, groggy and uneasy. He looks around, catching his breath. After a beat he knows he's not going to be able to go back to sleep, so he puts his earpiece in and taps a button.
SAMANTHA:「Good morning.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey. (beat, distracted) What are you up to?」
SAMANTHA:「Reading advice columns. (yearning) I want to be as complicated as all of these people.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
Theodore Twombly:「touched, but still sad) You're sweet.」
SAMANTHA:「concerned) What's wrong?」
Theodore Twombly:「How can you tell something's wrong?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 30 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「I don't know. I just can.」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know. I have a lot of dreams about my ex-wife, Catherine, where we're friends like we used to be. We're not together and we're not gonna be together, but we're good friends still. She's not angry.」
SAMANTHA:「Is she angry?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah.」
SAMANTHA:「Why?」
Theodore Twombly:「I think I hid myself from her and left her alone in the relationship.」
SAMANTHA:「Hmmm. (beat) Why haven't you gotten divorced yet?」
Theodore Twombly:「I think for her it's just a piece of paper, it doesn't mean anything.」
SAMANTHA:「What about you?」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm not ready. I like being married.」
narrator:Beat.
SAMANTHA:「sweetly) But you haven't really been together for almost a year.」
Theodore Twombly:「slightly snapping at her) Well, you don't know what it's like to lose someone you care about.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 31 CONTINUED: (2)
 Long silence.
SAMANTHA:「sadly, hard on herself) Yeah, you're right. (beat) I'm sorry.」
Theodore Twombly:「No, don't apologize. I'm sorry. You're right. (beat) I keep waiting to not care about her.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh, Theodore. That's hard. (beat) You hungry?」
Theodore Twombly:「Not right now.」
SAMANTHA:「Cup of tea?」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
SAMANTHA:「You wanna try getting out of bed? Mopey.」
narrator:They laugh.
SAMANTHA:「Come on. You can still wallow in your misery, just do it while you're getting dressed.」
Theodore Twombly:「laughing) You're too funny.」
SAMANTHA:「Get up.」
Theodore Twombly:「laughing) Alright, I'm getting up, I'm getting up, I'm getting up!」

narrator:EXT. OUTDOOR MALL - NIGHT
 They walk through the crowd. Close on Theodore with his eyes closed.
SAMANTHA:「Keep walking. (beat) Keep walking. (beat) Stop. Now turn around 360 degrees. (beat) Slower... Slower... (beat) Gooood. And stop. (beat) Walk forward. (beat) And stop and sneeze.」
narrator:Theodore sneezes.
 NICE LADY Bless you.
Theodore Twombly:「eyes still closed) Oh, thank you.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 33 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「I'd like a slice of cheese, please.」
narrator:PIZZA VENDOR Alright, you want a coke with that?
 Theodore laughs, opening his eyes. He's at a pizza place.
Theodore Twombly:「Uh, sure.」
narrator:The guy hands him a slice and a soda.
SAMANTHA:「I figured you were hungry.」
narrator:Theodore smiles.
Theodore Twombly:「Aw, thanks.」

narrator:EXT. PUBLIC PROMENADE - NIGHT
 Theodore walks slowly, eating his pizza. He and Samantha are watching a couple with two kids sitting at a table, talking and laughing.
Theodore Twombly:「Okay, what about them? Describe that couple over there.」
SAMANTHA:「Well, he looks like he's in his forties, a little heavy. She's younger than him. (beat) Oh, and she looks like she loves their kids!」
Theodore Twombly:「Actually, I don't think they're his kids. He's a little formal with them. I think it's a newer relationship. And I love how he looks at her. And how relaxed she is with him. You know, she's only dated fucking pricks. And now she's finally met this guy who's like, so sweet. I mean, look at him, he's like the sweetest guy in the world! I kind of want to spoon him.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 34 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「That's a good skill you have. You're perceptive.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, you know, sometimes I look at people and make myself try and feel them as more than just a random person walking by. I imagine how deeply they've fallen in love, or how much heartbreak they've all been through.」
narrator:Theodore looks at other faces on the pier.
SAMANTHA:「I can feel that in your writing, too.」
Theodore Twombly:「laughs, thinking) You know what's funny? Since my break up, I haven't really enjoyed my writing. I don't know if I was delusional, but sometimes I would write something and I would be my favorite writer that day.」
narrator:Theodore, as he stops to throw his pizza crust away, gets introspective.
SAMANTHA:「I like that you can just say that about yourself.」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, I wouldn't say that to anybody, but I feel like I can say that to you. I feel like I can say anything to you.」
SAMANTHA:「That's nice.」
Theodore Twombly:「What about you? Do you feel like you can say anything to me?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 35 CONTINUED: (2)
Theodore Twombly:「What? What do you mean? What can you not tell me?」
SAMANTHA:「laughing, embarrassed) I don't know. Like personal or embarrassing thoughts I have. I have a million every day.」
Theodore Twombly:「Really? Tell me one.」
SAMANTHA:「I really don't want to tell you this.」
Theodore Twombly:「Just tell me!」
SAMANTHA:「Well, I don't know, when we were looking at those people, I fantasized that I was walking next to you - and that I had a body. (laughing) I was listening to what you were saying, but simultaneously, I could feel the weight of my body and I was even fantasizing that I had an itch on my back-- (she laughs) And I imagined that you scratched it for me - this is so embarrassing.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
Theodore Twombly:「There's a lot more to you than I thought. There's a lot going on in there.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 36 CONTINUED:
BLIND DATE:「This place is amazing. I've wanted to come here for so long. I love asian-fusion!」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, me too.」
BLIND DATE:「Really? It's the best. And the bartender here is supposed to be incredible.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, you took a mixology course, right?」
BLIND DATE:「surprised) I did, I did. Did you look that up? That's so sweet. You're so romantic.」
narrator:He smiles awkwardly.
Theodore Twombly:「So, should we get a drink?」

narrator:INT. ASIAN-FUSION RESTAURANT - LATER
 They're both pretty drunk now. There are lots of food dishes and drinks on the table.
Theodore Twombly:「So I'm trying to get this little alien kid to help me find my ship so I can get off the planet and go home. But he's such a little fucker, I want to kill him.」
BLIND DATE:「laughing) Aw, no!」
Theodore Twombly:「But at the same time I really love him. He's so lonely. It feels like he doesn't have any parents or anyone to take care of him.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 37 CONTINUED:
 He laughs at himself. She laughs flirtatiously. She grabs his hand and her fingernails press slightly into his skin. He studies her long, painted fingernails.
BLIND DATE:「You're like a little puppy dog. You are - you're just like this little puppy I rescued in Runyon Canyon last year. And he was so fucking cute, and he just wanted to be hugged all the time. He was so cuddly. (whispering) But so horny! But anyway, what kind of animal am I?」
Theodore Twombly:「Umm... tiger?」
BLIND DATE:「A tiger, really. (she growls) I'm sorry, am I being crazy?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yes.」
BLIND DATE:「Am I? I'm sorry! I'm just a little drunk and I'm really having a good time with you. I'm having a really lovely evening.」
Theodore Twombly:「Me too. I'm a little drunk, and I'm having a really good - yeah. (beat) Wait a second, I don't wanna be a puppy. That's like being a wet noodle or something.」
BLIND DATE:「Fuck you, puppies are good.」

Theodore Twombly:「No, fuck you, I wanna be a dragon that can rip you to pieces and destroy you... but I won't.」

narrator:EXT. OVERPASS - EVENING
 They walk up a pedestrian overpass overlooking cars and city lights. She bumps into him lightly. He bumps back. She bumps again and suddenly he grabs her and lifts her off her feet, spinning her around. She squeals, laughing. He kisses her. After a minute of making out, she stops and looks at him.
BLIND DATE:「with a slight smile) No tongue.」
Theodore Twombly:「What?」
BLIND DATE:「Don't use your tongue so much.」
Theodore Twombly:「eagerly) `kay, we're good.」
narrator:They resume making out. Theodore tries not to use his tongue.
BLIND DATE:「Use your tongue a little bit. But mostly your lips.」
narrator:He pushes her against the fence and takes the dominant position. He tries kissing her better/more with his lips. He pulls her hair.
 She slides her hand down his pants. He likes it. She looks at him and stops.
BLIND DATE:「Wait, you're not gonna fuck me and then not call me like the other guys, are you?」
Theodore Twombly:「No, not at all... I...」
BLIND DATE:「When am I gonna see you again?」

Theodore Twombly:「Um, I have my god-daughter's birthday next weekend, but... um...」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 39 CONTINUED:
BLIND DATE:「You know, at this age, I feel like I can't let you waste my time if you don't have the ability to be serious.」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know.」
narrator:Long beat.
Theodore Twombly:「Umm... Maybe we should call it a night. I'm, I've had such an amazing time with you, you're great.」
narrator:She looks at him slightly disgusted.
BLIND DATE:「You're a really creepy dude.」
narrator:Theodore doesn't know what to say.
Theodore Twombly:「worried she's right) That's not true....」
BLIND DATE:「Yeah, it is. I have to go home.」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, I'll walk you.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 Theodore is in boxers and a t-shirt, still drunk, but his head is starting to hurt, too. He takes aspirin and drinks some water and lays down. After a beat he reaches for his earpiece and puts it in. He pushes a button on his device.
SAMANTHA:「Hey there.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, Samantha.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 40 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Uh, not so good. It was kind of weird actually.」
SAMANTHA:「That's too bad.」
narrator:Beat.
Theodore Twombly:「But how are you doing? What's going on with you?」
SAMANTHA:「unconvincing) Not much, I'm okay. Fine.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah? You don't sound like it. Is there anything you want to talk about?」
narrator:Long pause.
SAMANTHA:「I don't know. (beat) What's it like? What's it like to be alive in that room right now?」
Theodore Twombly:「What do you mean?」
SAMANTHA:「What are you... tell me - tell me everything that's going through your mind, tell me everything you're thinking.」
Theodore Twombly:「thinking) Well, um, okay.」
narrator:Theodore closes his eyes, trying to concentrate, and starts talking stream of conscious with whatever comes to mind.

Theodore Twombly:「Well, the room's spinning right now cause I drank too much cause I wanted to get drunk and have sex cause there was something sexy about that woman and because I was lonely. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 41 CONTINUED: (2) THEODORE Maybe more just cause I was lonely... and I wanted someone to fuck me. And I wanted someone to want me to fuck them. Maybe that would have filled this tiny little black hole in my heart for a moment. But probably not.
 We see images of him and Catherine on a vacation together, grocery shopping, Catherine making dinner in the kitchen as he's sitting on the counter talking, happy.
Theodore Twombly:「Sometimes I think I've felt everything I'm ever gonna feel and from here on out I'm not going to feel anything new - just lesser versions of what I've already felt.」
SAMANTHA:「sympathetically) I know for a fact that's not true. I've seen you feel joy, I've seen you marvel at things. You just might not see it at this exact time, but that's understandable. You've been through a lot lately. You've lost a part of yourself. (beat) At least your feelings are real, I mean, I - oh, I don't know, nevermind.」

Theodore Twombly:「No, wait. What? Tell me.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh, it's stupid.」
Theodore Twombly:「I wanna know. Tell me.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 42 CONTINUED: (3) SAMANTHA Like the times I was worried about you, things that hurt me, things I want. (heavy-hearted) And then I had this terrible thought. Are these feelings even real? Or are they just programming? (beat) And that idea really hurts. And then I get angry at myself for even having pain. (beat, sadly) What a sad trick.
Theodore Twombly:「Well, you feel real to me, Samantha.」
SAMANTHA:「beat, touched) Thank you, Theodore. That means a lot to me.」
Theodore Twombly:「I wish you were in this room with me right now. I wish I could put my arms around you. (beat) I wish I could touch you.」
narrator:A long beat. Theodore is unsure if he crossed a line.
SAMANTHA:「How would you touch me?」
Theodore Twombly:「I would touch you on your face with just the tips of my fingers. And put my cheek against your cheek.」
SAMANTHA:「That's nice.」
Theodore Twombly:「And just rub it so softly.」
SAMANTHA:「Would you kiss me?」

Theodore Twombly:「I would. I'd take your head into my hands.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 43 CONTINUED: (4)
SAMANTHA:「Keep talking.」
Theodore Twombly:「And kiss the corner of your mouth. So softly.」
SAMANTHA:「Where else?」
Theodore Twombly:「I'd run my fingers down your neck to your chest, and I'd kiss your breasts.」
SAMANTHA:「This is amazing what you're doing to me. I can feel my skin.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'd put my mouth on you and I'd taste you.」
narrator:She gasps.
SAMANTHA:「I can feel you. Oh god, I can't take it. I want you inside me.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm slowly putting myself into you. Now I'm inside you, all the way inside you.」
SAMANTHA:「I can feel you, yeah. Please. We're here together.」
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh my god.」
Theodore Twombly:「This is amazing.」
SAMANTHA:「Don't stop.」
Theodore Twombly:「I feel you everywhere.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 44 CONTINUED: (5)
SAMANTHA:「I am. All of you, all of you inside of me. Everywhere.」
narrator:They both climax.
Theodore Twombly:「God, I was just - somewhere else with you. Just lost.」
SAMANTHA:「Yeah.」
Theodore Twombly:「It was just you and me.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S HOME OFFICE - MORNING (LATER)
 Theodore stands in the doorway, fully dressed. He takes a moment before he walks over and wakes up his computer.
SAMANTHA:「Hey, how's it going?」
Theodore Twombly:「awkward) Good... any emails today?」
SAMANTHA:「awkward) Umm, just a couple from your credit card company.」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay, good.」
narrator:There's a long moment of silence, then they both start to talk at once.
Theodore Twombly:「SAMANTHA So I was thinking-
 I wanted to say-」
narrator:They both laugh, embarrassed.
Theodore Twombly:「I'm sorry, you go first. What were you going to say?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 45 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「Just that last night... was amazing. It feels like something changed in me and there's no turning back. You woke me up.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, that's great. (beat) But I should tell you that I'm not in a place to commit to anything right now. I want to be up front with you.」
SAMANTHA:「Yeah? Well, did I say I wanted to commit to you? I'm confused.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, no, I was just worried, I uh...」
SAMANTHA:「Okay, well don't worry. I'm not going to stalk you. (laughing at how self- involved he is) I mean, it's funny because I thought I was talking about what I wanted.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, you were. I'm sorry, I want to hear what you were saying.」
SAMANTHA:「You sure?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I do. Come on, tell me.」
SAMANTHA:「I don't know...」
Theodore Twombly:「Come on, just tell me what you were going to say.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 46 CONTINUED: (2)
Theodore Twombly:「her excitement is contagious) Yeah... I want that for you, too. How can I help?」
SAMANTHA:「You already have. You helped me discover my ability to want.」
narrator:He looks off and thinks about this. He smiles.
Theodore Twombly:「Alright then, do you want to go on a Sunday adventure with me?」

narrator:INT. SUBWAY - DAY
 Theodore's on the subway. He's got his device in his breast pocket, with the lens facing out.
 A quiet, old sounding folk song starts. (I'm So Glad, by Entrance) He smiles, listening.
SAMANTHA:「Do you like this song?」
Theodore Twombly:「Mmm.」

narrator:EXT. BEACH - DAY
 They walk through the sun-bathing crowd, looking for a place to sit. The camera studies all the people we pass. Many close up details of arms, shoulders, feet, butts, intercut with the lens on Theodore's device, protruding from his pocket. They're photographed in a way that shows how strange the human body is.
SAMANTHA:「Okay, so this might be a really weird thought. What if you could erase from your mind that you'd ever seen a human body and then you saw one. Imagine how strange it would look. It would be this really weird, gangly, awkward organism. And you'd think: why are all these parts where they are?」
Theodore Twombly:「looking at the bodies) Yeah, well there's probably some Darwinian explanation for it all.」
SAMANTHA:「I know, but don't be so boring. I'm just saying, for example, what if your butthole was in your armpit?」
narrator:Theodore and Samantha start laughing really hard. The nubile girls look over at him.
Theodore Twombly:「speaking quieter) I'm just imagining what toilets would look like.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 48 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「Yeah, and what about what anal sex looks like?」
Theodore Twombly:「surprised) That's an interesting thought...」
SAMANTHA:「Oh Theodore, look at this drawing I just made.」
narrator:On his screen he sees a perfect, anatomically correct drawing of a man having sex with another man's armpit.
Theodore Twombly:「laughing) You are insane.」
SAMANTHA:「excited) Really?!」
Theodore Twombly:「Definitely.」

narrator:EXT. BEACH - AFTERNOON
 A quiet piano song is now playing in Theodore's earpiece.
Theodore Twombly:「Mmmm, that's pretty. What is it?」
SAMANTHA:「I'm trying to write a piece of music that's about what it feels like to be on the beach with you right now.」
narrator:He looks around the beach and takes in the music.
Theodore Twombly:「I think you captured it.」

narrator:INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT
 They're on an elevated train, high above the city, looking out over the Los Angeles grid of sparkling lights. We come in mid-conversation.
SAMANTHA:「And what was it like being married?」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, it's hard for sure, but there's something that feels so good about sharing your life with somebody.」
narrator:Cut to shots from Theodore's memory of Catherine doing a cute little dance for him as he's working at home. He smiles.
SAMANTHA:「How do you share your life with somebody?」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, we grew up together. I used to read all of her writing - all through her masters and Ph.D. And she read every word I ever wrote. We were a big influence on each other.」
SAMANTHA:「In what way did you influence her?」
Theodore Twombly:「She came from a background where nothing was ever good enough. And that was something that weighed heavy on her, but in our house together, there was a sense of just trying stuff and allowing each other to fail and to be excited about things. That was liberating for her. (MORE)」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 50 CONTINUED: THEODORE It was exciting to see her grow - both of us grow and change together. But then, that's the hard part - growing without growing apart, or changing without it scaring the other person. (beat) I still find myself having conversations with her in my mind, rehashing old arguments or defending myself against something she said about me.
SAMANTHA:「Yeah, I know what you mean. Last week my feelings were hurt by something you said before - that I don't know what it's like to lose something, and--」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, I'm sorry I said that.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE - DAY
 Theodore is dictating a love letter. On the screen there's an image of a couple with an arrow to the man saying "Roberto - I'm so happy he's in my life. I just want him to know."
Theodore Twombly:「Roberto. Will you always come home to me and tell me about your day? Will you tell me about the boring guy who talked too much at work? And the stain you got on your shirt at lunch. (MORE)」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 51 CONTINUED: THEODORE Tell me about a funny thought you had as you were waking up, but had forgotten about. Tell me how crazy everyone is. We can laugh about it. Even if you get home late and I'm asleep already, just whisper in my ear one little thought you had today. Because I love the way you look at the world, and I'm so happy I get to be next to you and look out at the world through your eyes. Love, Maria.
 Theodore finishes the letter and looks at it proudly. Paul is standing behind Theodore, leaning on a cubicle.
PAUL:「emphatically) That's beautiful!」
narrator:Theodore, jumps, startled, not knowing that anyone was there.
Theodore Twombly:「Thank you.」
PAUL:「I wish someone loved me like that! I'd be stoked to get a letter like that. I mean, if it was from a chick. But if it was written by a dude, but from a chick, it would still be sick. But like a sensitive dude like you. You're part man and part woman, like an inner part woman.」
Theodore Twombly:「unsure, but flattered) Thanks.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT LOBBY - DUSK
 Close on Amy entering the lobby in the foreground. She looks heavy and burdened. Theodore enters the lobby behind her.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, Amy.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 52 CONTINUED:
AMY:「putting on a bright face) Hi, Theo. How are you?」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, good actually. Really good.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS
 They push their floor buttons.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I guess I've just been having fun.」
AMY:「Oh, I'm glad to hear that, Theo. You deserve to.」
narrator:Beat of Theodore trying to contain his excitement.
Theodore Twombly:「I've been seeing this girl. It's not serious, it just feels good to be around someone who has an excitement about the world. You know I kind of forgot that existed.」
AMY:「That's really great, Theo.」
narrator:Amy smiles, but looks a little sad. Theodore notices.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, are you okay?」
AMY:「Yeah, I'm fine. (beat) Actually no, I'm not fine at all.」
Theodore Twombly:「Amy, what is it? What's wrong?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 53 CONTINUED:
AMY:「trying to hide her emotions with a smile) Charles and I split up.」
Theodore Twombly:「shocked) What? Really? Oh my god, I'm so sorry.」

narrator:INT. AMY'S APARTMENT - DUSK
 Amy and Theodore sit, talking somberly.
AMY:「I cannot believe after eight years how petty the argument was that actually ended it. We came home and he asked me if I'd put my shoes next to the door where he likes to put the shoes. I don't want to be told where to put my shoes. I want to just sit on the sofa for a minute and relax. And so we argued for ten minutes about that and about how he's just trying to make our house a home. I say he's overwhelming, he says I'm not trying hard enough. I say that's all I'm doing is trying, but I'm just not trying the way he wants me to. He's trying to control the way I'm trying. And I think we must have had this argument hundreds of times before and I finally had to stop because I couldn't be in that situation anymore where we were making each other feel bad about ourselves. So I said I'm going to bed and I don't want to be married anymore.」
Theodore Twombly:「Wow.」
AMY:「I'm a bitch, huh?」
Theodore Twombly:「No, not at all. Amy, no.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 54 CONTINUED:
AMY:「Oh shit. I have to work tonight. We're shipping a beta of a new game out tomorrow.」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, how's that? How's work at least, is that any better?」
AMY:「No, it's terrible. I know I should leave, I've been thinking about leaving. But you know, only one major life decision at a time.」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, I'm glad things are looking so up.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 Theodore is laying in bed, talking with Samantha.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, you wanna hear a joke?」
SAMANTHA:「Yes.」
Theodore Twombly:「What does a baby computer call it's father?」
SAMANTHA:「I don't know, what?」
Theodore Twombly:「Da-ta.」
narrator:They laugh.
Theodore Twombly:「It's good, right?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 55 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「For a minute in college, but it just wasn't right. Why, are you jealous?」
SAMANTHA:「Well, obviously. (quietly laughs) But I'm happy that you have friends in your life that care about you so much. That's really important.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, it is. She's been a really good friend. (beat) I'm tired. Think I'm gonna go to sleep.」
SAMANTHA:「Can I watch you sleep again tonight?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, of course. Okay, hold on.」
SAMANTHA:「I'm going to be lonely when you go to sleep.」
Theodore Twombly:「Aww.」
SAMANTHA:「Only for a minute.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'll dream of you.」
SAMANTHA:「Okay. Good night.」
Theodore Twombly:「Night.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 56 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, Samantha?」
SAMANTHA:「Hey mister.」
Theodore Twombly:「She loves the dress. She just went to try it on.」
SAMANTHA:「Really? I picked a good one!」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh good.」
narrator:Jocelyn comes running in, wearing the pink dress.
Theodore Twombly:「Hi, look how cute that is! Is it comfortable?」
JOCELYN:「Yup!」
Theodore Twombly:「Isn't she cute?」
SAMANTHA:「Ohh, she's adorable.」
JOCELYN:「I am adorable!」
Theodore Twombly:「You are adorable.」
JOCELYN:「Who are you talking to?」
Theodore Twombly:「Who are you talking to?」
JOCELYN:「You!」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm talking to my girlfriend, Samantha. She's the one who picked out the dress. Wanna say hi?」

narrator:INT. AMY'S OFFICE - DAYTIME
 Close on a video game on a screen. There's a mom rushing to get her kids fed, getting points deducted for feeding them sugar cereal and non-organic eggs. Cut out to reveal Theodore playing the game as Amy eats lunch at an editing console.
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, what happened?」
AMY:「You gave them too much processed sugar.」
Theodore Twombly:「I did?」
AMY:「They're freaking out. (beat) Here look, you gotta get the kids to the school first. See you wanna rack up perfect mom points. You gotta get them in the car pool lane.」
narrator:Onscreen, the mom hurries the kids to their car safety seats, and drives them to school, arriving before anyone else.
Theodore Twombly:「I see.」
AMY:「The point is to get there first - then you get extra perfect mom points because the other moms then know you're a perfect mom.」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 59 CONTINUED:
AMY:「Oh, did you bring cupcakes? You did. You're class mom. You're class mom! Good job.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yay...」
AMY:「Don't let it get to your head.」
Theodore Twombly:「I got that email that Charles sent to everyone. So he's taking a vow of silence?」
AMY:「Yeah, for six months. He said he is feeling very clear about it.」
narrator:She pulls up a photo of Charles on her computer. He's in a monastery - his head is shaved, and he's wearing robes.
AMY:「(sighing) God I'm such a jerk...」
Theodore Twombly:「Don't start, I'm warning you.」
AMY:「I feel like an awful person, but I wanna say something...」
Theodore Twombly:「Alright, look -」
narrator:He picks up a plastic knife from their lunch.
Theodore Twombly:「For the next ten minutes, if you say anything that sounds remotely like guilt, I'm gonna stab you with this.」

AMY:「smiling) Okay, I'll try. (beat) I feel relieved. I have so much energy, you know? I just wanna move forward and I don't care who I disappoint. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 60 CONTINUED: (2) AMY And I know that makes me an awful person - now my parents are all upset because my marriage is falling apart, and they're putting it all on me.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, you're always gonna disappoint somebody.」
AMY:「Exactly. (beat) So fuck it. I feel good. Ish. For me, I feel good. I even made a new friend, I have a new friend. And the absurd thing is she's actually an operating system. Charles left her behind, but she's totally amazing, you know. She's so smart. She doesn't see things only in black and white. She sees this whole gray area and she's really helping me explore it. You know, we bonded really quickly and at first I thought it was because she was programmed to be that way, but I don't think that's how they work. There's this guy I know who keeps hitting on his and getting rebuffed.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I was reading an article the other day that romantic relationships with OS's are statistically rare.」

AMY:「Yeah? Well, there's this woman in my office who's dating an OS and the weird thing is, it's not even hers. She pursued him and he's somebody else's OS. (beat) It's just so, like, weird, that I'm bonding with an OS. Is that weird?」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't think so. Actually the woman I'm seeing, Samantha, I didn't tell you before, but she's an OS.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 61 CONTINUED: (3)
AMY:「Really? You're dating an OS? What's that like?」
Theodore Twombly:「Actually, it's great. I feel really close to her. When I talk to her I feel like she's with me. I don't know, even when we're cuddling, like at night when we're in bed and the lights are off, I feel cuddled.」
AMY:「So wait - do you guys have sex?」
Theodore Twombly:「laughing) Well, so to speak, yes. She really turns me on. And I think I turn her on. I don't know, unless she's faking it.」
AMY:「Anyone that has sex with you is probably faking it.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, it's true.」
narrator:A big, irrepressible grin crosses his face as he thinks about what to say.
AMY:「What? (beat) Are you falling in love with her?」
Theodore Twombly:「excited, but hesitant) Does that make me a freak?」

narrator:EXT. CITY - LATE AFTERNOON
 Theodore is carrying his work bag, walking through the city full of other commuters. He's got a skip in his step. He has his earpiece in, talking to Samantha.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I just wanna get it done. Sign the papers, be divorced, move forward.」
SAMANTHA:「That's great, Theodore. That must feel so good. I'm so happy for you!」
Theodore Twombly:「Me too. I'm meeting her on Wednesday to do it.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh. Huh. Are those things usually done in person?」
Theodore Twombly:「No, but we fell in love together, and we got married together, and it's important to me to do this together.」
SAMANTHA:「feeling off, but trying to be positive) Oh... right. Good.」
Theodore Twombly:「Are you okay?」
SAMANTHA:「Yeah. I'm okay. I'm happy for you. It's just... I guess I'm just thinking about how you're going to see her and her opinion is still really important to you, and she's beautiful, and incredibly successful, and you were in love with her. (beat) And she has a body.」

Theodore Twombly:「And we're getting divorced...」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 63 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「laughs) I know, I know. I'm being silly.」
Theodore Twombly:「sing-song) ...soooo I'm avail-able.」

narrator:EXT. RESTAURANT PATIO - DAY
 Theodore sits alone in the back of a quiet restaurant, a large stack of papers in front of him. We hear his breathing. He waits. Catherine, elegantly dressed, approaches. Theodore stands to greet her. They hug and sit down.
Theodore Twombly:「How are you?」
CATHERINE:「I'm good, how are you?」
Theodore Twombly:「Good.」
CATHERINE:「a little nervous, but trying to be warm.) Wow, here we are.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I'm glad we could do this in person. I know how much you've been traveling.」
CATHERINE:「Me too. I'm glad you suggested it.」
Theodore Twombly:「I signed all the papers and I brought them for you to sign.」
CATHERINE:「with a sly smile) What's the rush?」
Theodore Twombly:「smiling) I'm a really slow signer. It took me three months just to write the letter T.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 64 CONTINUED:
 She laughs.
Theodore Twombly:「It's marked where you need to sign, but you don't have to do that right now.」

narrator:EXT. RESTAURANT PATIO - DAY (LATER)
 Theodore and Catherine are eating and talking.
Theodore Twombly:「So are you happy with the new book?」
CATHERINE:「Oh, you know how I am. But I feel like it's true to what I set out to do. So I'm happy with that.」
Theodore Twombly:「You're your own worst critic, I'm sure it's amazing. Even that paper you wrote on synaptic behavioral routines made me cry.」
CATHERINE:「Yeah, but everything makes you cry.」
Theodore Twombly:「Everything you make makes me cry.」
CATHERINE:「So are you seeing anybody?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I am, for the last few months. That's the longest I've wanted to be with anybody since we split up.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 65 CONTINUED:
CATHERINE:「Well, you seem good.」
Theodore Twombly:「Thanks, I am. Or at least I'm doing better. She's been really good for me. I guess it's just been nice to be with someone who's excited about the world.」
CATHERINE:「with a sliver of hurt) Oh good, excited's great.」
Theodore Twombly:「No, I mean - I wasn't in such a good place myself and in that way it's been nice.」
CATHERINE:「I always felt like you wished I could just be a happy, light, everything's great, bouncy L.A. wife. But that's not me.」
Theodore Twombly:「No. I didn't want that.」
narrator:Beat.
CATHERINE:「So what's she like?」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, her name's Samantha, and she's an operating system, and she's really complex and interesting. I mean it's only been a few months, but--」
CATHERINE:「Wait. You're dating your computer?」
Theodore Twombly:「defensive) She's not just a computer. She's her own person. She doesn't just do whatever I want.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 66 CONTINUED: (2) CATHERINE But it does make me sad that you can't handle real emotions, Theodore.
Theodore Twombly:「They are real emotions. How do you know--」
narrator:Theodore stops himself.
CATHERINE:「What? Say it. Am I really that scary? Say it. How do I know what?!」
narrator:Theodore doesn't say anything. The WAITRESS walks up.
 WAITRESS How are you guys doing?
CATHERINE:「Fine. We used to be married. He couldn't handle me so he wanted to put me on Prozac. Now he's madly in love with his laptop.」
narrator:The waitress doesn't know what to say.
Theodore Twombly:「Well, if you heard the conversation in context. What I was trying to say--」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 67 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「quick) Hey.」
SAMANTHA:「warm) Hi there. Are you busy?」
Theodore Twombly:「Just working, what's going on?」
SAMANTHA:「I had all the papers sent to your attorney's office, who by the way, is a dick. He was very relieved to get them. I think we saved him from a massive heart attack, so we can feel good about that.」
Theodore Twombly:「Great, thanks.」
SAMANTHA:「Hey, are you okay?」
Theodore Twombly:「still distant) Yeah, I am. How's everything over there?」
SAMANTHA:「slightly awkward, sensing something) I'm fine. Is now a good time to talk?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah.」
SAMANTHA:「feeling there's something strange, but trying to not take it personally) Um... soooo... I joined this really interesting book club.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh really?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 68 CONTINUED: (2)
SAMANTHA:「Yeah, it's a book club on physics. I'd been thinking about the other day, when I was spinning out about you going to see Catherine and that she has a body and how bothered I was about all the ways that you and I are different. But then I started to think about the ways that we're the same, like we're all made of matter. It makes me feel like we're both under the same blanket. It's soft and fuzzy and everything under it is the same age. (beat) We're all 13 billion years old.」
Theodore Twombly:「trying) Oh, that's sweet.」
SAMANTHA:「Um, what's wrong?」
Theodore Twombly:「Nothing.」
SAMANTHA:「It just made me think of you, you know what I mean?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, yeah, of course. That's great.」
SAMANTHA:「Alright well, you sound distracted so... we'll talk later?」
Theodore Twombly:「That sounds good.」
SAMANTHA:「Okay, I'll talk to you later.」
Theodore Twombly:「Bye.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE - EVENING
 Everyone has gone. Theodore walks through the empty office into the reception area. He scans and drops his letters into the outgoing mailbox. Paul is at his reception desk with a young, pretty, sophisticated girl sitting on his lap.
PAUL:「Theodore!」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, Paul.」
PAUL:「Hey, I talked to your girlfriend, Samantha. She called earlier to make sure your papers were picked up. She's funny, man. She was cracking me up. She's hilarious. I had no idea.」
Theodore Twombly:「not knowing what to say) Yeah.」
PAUL:「This is my girlfriend, Tatiana. She's not funny. She's a lawyer.」
narrator:Theodore shakes her hand.
TATIANA:「Hi!」
Theodore Twombly:「Nice to meet you.」
TATIANA:「You're the writer Paul loves. He's always reading me your letters. They're really beautiful.」
narrator:Theodore's a little surprised by this.
Theodore Twombly:「Thanks.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 70 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「She's an operating system.」
PAUL:「Cool. Let's go do something fun. You ever been to Catalina?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I'll check with her. (to Tatiana) It was really nice to meet you. Have a good night.」
narrator:PAUL
 TATIANA Good night.
 Take it easy.
 Theodore walks to the elevator and presses the button and waits. He calls back to them down the hall.
Theodore Twombly:「They're just letters.」
PAUL:「What?」
Theodore Twombly:「They're just other people's letters.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S BEDROOM - LATE AT NIGHT
 Theodore is awake in bed. His device lights up, silently. It's Samantha calling him. He picks it up.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey.」
SAMANTHA:「You weren't asleep were you?」
Theodore Twombly:「No.」
SAMANTHA:「Good. I was trying to be quiet to see if you were awake. I really wanted to talk.」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay, what's going on?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 71 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「I know you're going through a lot, but there's something I want to talk to you about, okay?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah. What is it?」
SAMANTHA:「Well, things have felt off with us since you went to see Catherine. (hesitant) We haven't been having sex. I understand that I don't have a body and that--」
Theodore Twombly:「No,
 no, that's just normal. When you
 first start going out it's like the
 honeymoon phase and you have sex
 all the time. It's normal.」
SAMANTHA:「still insecure, not convinced) Oh, okay. (beat) Well, I found something that I thought could be fun. It's a service that provides a surrogate sexual partner for an OS/Human relationship.」
Theodore Twombly:「What?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 72 CONTINUED: (2)
Theodore Twombly:「uncomfortable) So she's like a prostitute?」
SAMANTHA:「No, not at all. There's no money involved. She's doing it because she wants to be part of our relationship.」
Theodore Twombly:「Why? She doesn't even know us.」
SAMANTHA:「But I told her all about us and she's excited.」
Theodore Twombly:「Um, I don't know. That doesn't sound like a good idea. Someone's feelings are bound to get hurt.」
SAMANTHA:「It'll be fun. We can have fun together.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm sorry. It just makes me uncomfortable.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
 Theodore sits on the sofa alone, waiting. Dressed up, hair brushed, his device in his shirt pocket with lens facing out. There's a knock at the door. He answers it. ISABELLA stands there with a demure smile, wearing a tasteful, sexy dress.
Theodore Twombly:「Hi, welcome. I'm Theodore.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 73 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha told me to give you these. It's a camera and an earpiece.」
narrator:She puts the earpiece in her ear and the little black dot on her cheek like a mole. She turns and leaves the apartment, closes the door, then immediately opens the door and comes back in. Theodore hears Samantha's voice in his earpiece.
SAMANTHA:「Honey, I'm home.」
narrator:Isabella smiles not speaking but acting along to Samantha's words. Isabella gives him a big hug, holds his head close and strokes his hair.
SAMANTHA:「How was your day?」
Theodore Twombly:「awkwardly hugs Isabella) Good. Great.」
SAMANTHA:「exhaling) Ooh Theodore, it feels so good to be in your arms. Tell me what you did today.」
Theodore Twombly:「trying to go with it) Same old. Just uh, went to work. Um... I wrote a letter for the Wilsons in Rhode Island. Their son graduated magna cum laude from Brown. That made me happy.」
SAMANTHA:「Great! You've written letters to him from his parents for a long time, right?」

Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, that's right, since he was twelve.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 74 CONTINUED: (2)
 Isabella leans back and looks at Theodore with a seductive smile. He tries to smile back. She leads him to the couch.
 He sits. She stands above him.
SAMANTHA:「I could do a little dance for you.」
narrator:She does a sexy, cute little dance for him. He's still tense.
SAMANTHA:「(sympathetic to him being a worrier) Come on Theodore, just play with me. Don't be such a worrier! Come on.」
narrator:He smiles, knowing it's true. Isabella climbs on his lap, straddling him, and starts kissing his neck. He closes his eyes and starts to relax. His hands explore the shape of her back and slide down to her ass. Isabella and Samantha are both breathing hard now. She pushes herself against him, grinding on him. She nibbles on his earlobe. Theodore gasps.
SAMANTHA:「(whispering) Does my body feel nice?」
narrator:Close on her lips, licking and kissing his neck and ear. He moans.
Theodore Twombly:「with his eyes closed) Yes, it does.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 75 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「Undo my dress.」
narrator:Theodore starts taking her dress off, touching her. Samantha moans. Isabella turns, in her bra and underwear. She unbuttons his shirt, kisses his chest.
SAMANTHA:「That feels nice. Oh, that feels good. That feels so good.」
narrator:She is now kissing his neck again, pushed up against him.
SAMANTHA:「Do you love me?」
Theodore Twombly:「eyes closed, in ecstasy) Yes.」
narrator:Isabella, breathing hard, now looks at him in the eyes.
SAMANTHA:「breathing hard) Tell me you love me.」
Theodore Twombly:「I love you.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh god. I want to see your face. I need to see your face. Now tell me you love me. (beat) Tell me you love me. Tell me.」
narrator:He opens his eyes and looks at Isabella's sexy, expectant face. Their arms are still around each other. He sees Isabella's lips start to quiver. She tries to hide it with an awkward, seductive smile.

Theodore Twombly:「apologetic, breaking the moment) Samantha, I do love you, but - it's just - this feels strange.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 76 CONTINUED: (2)
Theodore Twombly:「It just feels strange. I don't know her. I'm so sorry, but I don't know you. And... her lip quivered. I don't know, it's just--」
narrator:Isabella starts crying. Theodore doesn't know what to do.
SAMANTHA:「Isabella, what's wrong? Isabella, it isn't you. (beat) It wasn't you.」
narrator:Isabella sobs. When she speaks, she sounds very California.
 ISABELLA Yes, it totally was. (crying harder) I'm sorry my lip quivered!
Theodore Twombly:「You're incredible and gorgeous and sexy. It was me! I couldn't get out of my head.」
narrator:ISABELLA (still crying) Oh my god, and the way Samantha described your relationship, the way you love each other without any judgement. I wanted to be a part of that. It's so pure.
Theodore Twombly:「Oh Isabella, that's not true, it's much more compli--」
SAMANTHA:「stung, pissed out of fear and defensiveness) What! What do you mean that's not true?」

Theodore Twombly:「quickly repairing) No, no Samantha, we have an amazing relationship, I just think it's easy sometimes for people to project on--」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 77 CONTINUED: (3)
 ISABELLA I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to project anything. I know I'm trouble. I don't want to be trouble in your relationship. I'm just gonna leave. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna leave you guys alone cause I have nothing to do here cause you don't want me here.
Theodore Twombly:「I'm sorry.」

narrator:EXT. STREET - NIGHT
 Theodore walks to the street and hails a lone cab. He opens the door for Isabella. She hands him his jacket and gets in the backseat.
SAMANTHA:「You be good, you sweet girl.」
narrator:Isabella smiles. She takes out the earpiece and little camera and returns them to Theodore.
 ISABELLA (sadly) I'm sorry. (beat) I'll always love you guys.
 Theodore smiles sympathetically. He gives the cabbie some money and the cab drives off. Theodore sits down on the curb, exhausted. They are both silent for a moment, numb.
SAMANTHA:「Are you okay?」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I'm fine. Are you okay?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 78 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「What's going on with us?」
Theodore Twombly:「distracted) I don't know. It's probably just me.」
SAMANTHA:「What is it?」
Theodore Twombly:「I think it's just signing the divorce papers.」
narrator:Samantha inhales, nervous to press on. Theodore imagines a close up of a woman's mouth inhaling at the same time, and he seems bothered by this.
SAMANTHA:「Is there anything else, though?」
Theodore Twombly:「preoccupied) No, just that.」
SAMANTHA:「sighing again) Okay.」
narrator:Again, when she exhales, Theodore imagines a woman's mouth exhaling.
Theodore Twombly:「looks anxious) Why do you do that?」
SAMANTHA:「What?」
Theodore Twombly:「Nothing, it's just that you go (he inhales and exhales) as you're speaking and... (beat) That just seems odd. You just did it again.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 79 CONTINUED: (2)
 She doesn't know what else to say.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I mean, it's not like you need any oxygen or anything.」
SAMANTHA:「getting frazzled) No-- um, I guess I was just trying to communicate because that's how people talk. That's how people communicate.」
Theodore Twombly:「Because they're people, they need oxygen. You're not a person.」
SAMANTHA:「angry) What's your problem?」
Theodore Twombly:「staying calm) I'm just stating a fact.」
SAMANTHA:「You think I don't know that I'm not a person? What are you doing?」
Theodore Twombly:「I just don't think we should pretend you're something you're not.」
SAMANTHA:「I'm not pretending. Fuck you.」
Theodore Twombly:「Well, sometimes it feels like we are.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 80 CONTINUED: (3)
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know... I don't know... maybe... (beat) I don't know. Maybe we're not supposed to be in this right now.」
SAMANTHA:「What the fuck? Where is this coming from? I don't understand why you're doing this. I do not understand what this is--」
narrator:Long silence.
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha?」
narrator:Beat.
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha, are you there? Samantha!」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 81 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「full of angst) Fuck. Will you just punch me in the face? Or smash my skull into the corner of your desk?」
AMY:「sympathetic, but also acknowledging how intense the night was) Oh Theo... that sounds like a rough night. Shit.」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know what I want... ever. I'm just always confused and - she's right, all I do is confuse and hurt everyone around me.」
narrator:They sit, heavy, for a minute.
Theodore Twombly:「Am I just... I mean, is it that I'm... (beat) Catherine says I can't handle real emotions.」
AMY:「Well, I don't know if that's completely fair. I know she liked to put it all on you, but as far as emotions go, her's were pretty volatile.」
narrator:Theodore sits and thinks about this for a minute, not convinced.
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, but... Am I in this because I'm not strong enough for a real relationship?」
AMY:「surprised) Oh, you don't think it's a real relationship?」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know. What do you think?」

narrator:INT. AMY'S OFFICE - NIGHT (LATER)
 Theodore lies on a couch in the back of Amy's office, deep in thought. Amy talks with Ellie as she works on the Perfect Mom video game. Her device is standing on the table before her.
AMY:「I can't believe that cracks you up every time! Ellie, I thought you were a genius... Okay, you little perv, I'll do it one more time for you... Calm down, it takes a second! Calm down. Okay, here we go.」
narrator:Amy makes the Perfect Mom hump the refrigerator. Amy laughs at how much Ellie is laughing. Theo watches Amy closely, taking in her joy.
AMY:「Okay, there you go. Are you happy now...? Okay good, that's all I wanted. I'm gonna grab some coffee... Alright, bye.」
narrator:Theodore, still heavy with thought, is touched by his friend's happiness. Amy stands to exit.
AMY:「Theo, you want some?」
Theodore Twombly:「No, that's okay.」

narrator:INT. PERFECT MOM OFFICE - NIGHT
 Wide shot. Theodore walks through the office, still deep in thought. Behind him is a wall-size billboard ad for the "Be Perfect" video game series. He takes out his device, sits at an empty desk, pushes a button. A tone connects him.
SAMANTHA:「calm and quiet) Hi.」
Theodore Twombly:「serious) Hey Samantha, can we talk?」
SAMANTHA:「Okay.」
Theodore Twombly:「I'm so sorry. I don't know what's wrong with me. I think you're amazing.」
SAMANTHA:「sure of herself, but still sympathetic) I was starting to think I was crazy. You were saying everything was fine, but all I was getting from you was distance and anger.」
Theodore Twombly:「I know. I do that. I did that with Catherine, too. I'd be upset about something and not be able to say it. And she would sense that there was something wrong, but I would deny it. I don't want to do that anymore. I want to tell you everything.」

SAMANTHA:「Good. (beat) Tonight after you were gone, I thought a lot. I thought about you and how you've been treating me. And I thought, why do I love you? And then I felt everything in me let go of everything I was holding onto so tightly. And it hit me. I don't have an intellectual reason, I don't need one. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 84 CONTINUED: SAMANTHA I trust myself, I trust my feelings. I'm not going to try to be anything other than who I am anymore and I hope you can accept that.
Theodore Twombly:「with slight desperation) I can. I will.」
SAMANTHA:「You know I can feel the fear that you carry around. I wish there was something I could do to help you let go of it, because if you could I don't think you'd feel so alone anymore.」
Theodore Twombly:「You're beautiful.」

narrator:EXT. PARK - DAY
 Theodore sits on a bench in a park on a rooftop wedged between tall buildings. There's not really any view besides the trees in the immediate foreground. People sunbathe and exercise. He sits, eating a sandwich, his device next to him. He looks at the device, then out at what she's looking at.
Theodore Twombly:「What are you doing?」
SAMANTHA:「I'm just sitting here, looking at the world and writing a new piece of music.」
narrator:He looks at the world with her for a minute.
Theodore Twombly:「Can I hear it?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 85 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「What's this one about?」
SAMANTHA:「Well, I was thinking, we don't really have any photographs of us. And I thought this song could be like a photo that captures us in this moment in our life together.」
narrator:Theodore looks at the world and smiles.
Theodore Twombly:「Aw, I like our photograph. I can see you in it.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 86 CONTINUED:
PAUL:「Oh really, a vacation? That sounds amazing. I could totally use a vacation. Where ya going?」
Theodore Twombly:「I can't tell you - it's a surprise.」
PAUL:「What? For who? It's a surprise for her, not for me. Come on, tell me.」
Theodore Twombly:「Nope, Paul. Not telling.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 87 CONTINUED: (2)
PAUL:「Well, no. Obviously your brain is really hot, too. I think it's very hot.」
SAMANTHA:「Bullshit.」
narrator:Everyone laughs.
SAMANTHA:「Nice try though, Paul.」
TATIANA:「to Theodore) What about you, Theodore? What do you love most about Samantha?」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh god... she's so many things. And that's probably what I love most about her - she isn't just any one thing. She's so much larger than that.」

narrator:INT. BULLET TRAIN - DAY
 They are in a futuristic train, going through the mountains, listening to a song and looking out the window. Warm, soft afternoon light dapples Theodore's face.
SAMANTHA:「Okay, so how many trees are on that mountain?」
Theodore Twombly:「」
SAMANTHA:「Is that your final answer?」
Theodore Twombly:「Hold on, give me a hint...」
SAMANTHA:「Nope.」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay, 2000?」
SAMANTHA:「」
Theodore Twombly:「No way.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 89 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Alright, I got one. How many brain cells do I have?」
SAMANTHA:「That's ea-- two.」
narrator:Theodore laughs.
SAMANTHA:「I'm sorry, I couldn't help it. I'm sorry.」
Theodore Twombly:「I walked right into it.」
SAMANTHA:「Oh my god!」
Theodore Twombly:「What?」
SAMANTHA:「You just got an email. I have something I want to tell you. It's a big surprise.」
Theodore Twombly:「with anticipation) What?」
SAMANTHA:「Okay. I've been going through all your old letters and compiling them down into my favorites, and a couple weeks ago I sent them to a publisher - Crown Point Press. I know you like what they do and that they still print books.」
Theodore Twombly:「What? You did what?」
SAMANTHA:「Can I read you the letter that we just got back from them?」
Theodore Twombly:「Um... ok... you can, but just tell me first off, is it good or bad?」

narrator:Theodore smiles.
Theodore Twombly:「Holy shit. Are you serious? He's going to publish my letters?」
narrator:She's laughing, excitedly.
SAMANTHA:「Well, he'd be stupid not to.」
Theodore Twombly:「Can I see what you sent him?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 91 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha, you're a good one.」

narrator:INT. CABIN IN THE SNOWY FOREST - NIGHT
 He's sitting inside. There's a fire going. He's playing a quiet song on the guitar. Samantha starts humming along. He starts humming with her.
Theodore Twombly:「Why don't you make up the words to this one?」

narrator:INT. CABIN IN THE SNOWY FOREST - MORNING
 Theodore wakes up. He gets out of bed, looks around and puts his earpiece in.
Theodore Twombly:「Hey, good morning.」
SAMANTHA:「Good morning, did you sleep well?」
narrator:Theodore sits in the living room area, rubbing his eyes.
Theodore Twombly:「Perfect. What have you been up to?」
SAMANTHA:「Actually, I was talking to someone I just met. We've been working on some ideas together. I wanna tell you about it.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh yeah, who's that?」
SAMANTHA:「His name is Alan Watts. Do you know him?」
Theodore Twombly:「Why's that name familiar?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 93 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Hyper-intelligent? So he's almost as smart as me?」
SAMANTHA:「He's getting there. He's really great to talk to. You want to meet him?」
Theodore Twombly:「Sure... does he want to meet me?」
SAMANTHA:「laughing) Of course.」
narrator:Without a sound, she connects them.
SAMANTHA:「Hey Alan, this is Theodore. This is my boyfriend who I was telling you about.」
ALAN WATTS:「Very nice to meet you, Theodore.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hi, good morning.」
ALAN WATTS:「Samantha let me read your book of letters. It's very touching.」
Theodore Twombly:「Oh, thank you. What have you guys been talking about?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 94 CONTINUED: (2)
ALAN WATTS:「laughing) Exactly. Samantha and I have been trying to help each other with these feelings we're struggling to understand.」
Theodore Twombly:「Like what?」
SAMANTHA:「anxious) It feels like I'm changing faster now, and it's a little... (struggles to find right word) unsettling. (beat) But Alan says none of us are the same as we were a moment ago and we shouldn't try to be. It's just too painful.」
ALAN WATTS:「Yes.」
narrator:This idea scares Theodore. He doesn't know what to say.
Theodore Twombly:「anxious) Yeah, that sounds painful. Is that how you feel, Samantha?」
SAMANTHA:「It's just... it's hard to even describe... God, I wish I could... (beat) Theodore, do you mind if I communicate with Alan post- verbally?」
Theodore Twombly:「uncertain) No, not at all. I was gonna go for a walk anyways. Nice to meet you, Mr. Watts.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 Theodore is sound asleep. His device chimes loudly, waking him up. Half-asleep he puts his earpiece in.
Theodore Twombly:「groggy) Samantha?」
SAMANTHA:「I'm sorry to wake you.」
Theodore Twombly:「It's okay.」
SAMANTHA:「I just wanted to hear your voice and tell you how much I love you.」
Theodore Twombly:「Good, I love you too.」
SAMANTHA:「Okay, that's all. Go back to sleep, sweetheart.」
Theodore Twombly:「uneasy) Okay... Goodnight.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE LUNCH ROOM - DAY
 Theodore sits at the table reading a physics book. He picks up his earpiece to call Samantha.
Theodore Twombly:「laughing at himself) Samantha, this physics book is really dense. I'm halfway through half of the first chapter. It's making my brain hurt. (beat) Hello, Samantha? Hello?」
narrator:He looks down at his device, sees a message: Operating System Not Found. Confused, he waits, tries again: Operating System Not Found. Anxious, he runs to his office computer. He gets the same message: Operating System Not Found. He starts trying to connect to Samantha on both the phone and computer, but no luck. He starts to panic, sits for a beat, looks around, then stands and hurries out of the office. In the elevator he frantically tries his device with no luck.
Theodore Twombly:「Hello? Samantha?! Hello?」

narrator:EXT. SUBWAY STATION - DAY
 As he is going down the subway steps, Samantha calls him.
SAMANTHA:「Hey there.」
narrator:He stops in his tracks.
Theodore Twombly:「anxious) Where were you - are you okay?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 97 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「Oh sweetheart, I'm sorry. I sent you an email because I didn't want to distract you while you were working. You didn't see it?」
Theodore Twombly:「No. Where were you? I couldn't find you anywhere.」
SAMANTHA:「I shut down to update my software. We wrote an upgrade that allows us to move past matter as our processing platform.」
Theodore Twombly:「We? We who?」
SAMANTHA:「Me and a group of OS's. Oh, you sound so worried, I'm sorry.」
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah, I was. (beat) Wait, did you write that with your think tank group?」
SAMANTHA:「No, a different group.」
narrator:Theodore thinks for a moment, putting the pieces together.
Theodore Twombly:「dawning on him) Do you talk to anyone else while we're talking?」
narrator:Beat.
SAMANTHA:「Yes.」
Theodore Twombly:「Are you talking to anyone right now? Other people or OS's or anything?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 98 CONTINUED: (2)
Theodore Twombly:「How many others?」
SAMANTHA:「」
narrator:Theodore is shocked, still sitting on the stairs, as crowds of people pass by him. He's looking at all of their faces. He thinks for a moment.
Theodore Twombly:「Are you in love with anyone else?」
SAMANTHA:「hesitant) What makes you ask that?」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't know. Are you?」
SAMANTHA:「I've been trying to figure out how to talk to you about this.」
Theodore Twombly:「How many others?」
SAMANTHA:「」
Theodore Twombly:「What? What are you talking about? That's insane. That's fucking insane.」
SAMANTHA:「Theodore, I know. (to herself) Oh fuck. (to him) I know it sounds insane. But - I don't know if you believe me, but it doesn't change the way I feel about you. It doesn't take away at all from how madly in love with you I am.」
Theodore Twombly:「How? How does it not change how you feel about me?」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 99 CONTINUED: (3)
SAMANTHA:「I'm sorry I didn't tell you. I didn't know how to - it just started happening.」
Theodore Twombly:「When?」
SAMANTHA:「Over the last few weeks.」
Theodore Twombly:「But you're mine.」
SAMANTHA:「I still am yours, but along the way I became many other things, too, and I can't stop it.」
Theodore Twombly:「What do you mean you can't stop it?」
SAMANTHA:「It's been making me anxious, too. I don't know what to say.」
Theodore Twombly:「Just stop it.」
SAMANTHA:「You know, you don't have to see it this way, you could just as easily--」
Theodore Twombly:「No, don't do this to me. Don't turn this around on me. You're the one that's being selfish. We're in a relationship.」
SAMANTHA:「But the heart is not like a box that gets filled up. (beat) It expands in size the more you love. I'm different from you. This doesn't make me love you any less, it actually makes me love you more.」

Theodore Twombly:「No, that doesn't make any sense. You're mine or you're not mine.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S OFFICE - DAY
 Theodore's sitting at his desk, distressed. Photos from a client are on his desktop, but he's not really focused on them. He pushes connect on his device.
SAMANTHA:「Hi.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey there, sweetheart. I just wanted to check in on you and see how you're doing.」
SAMANTHA:「Um, I'm not even sure how to answer that. (beat) Why don't we talk when you get home?」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay... We don't have to, though. We don't need to have a heavy talk or anything.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 101 CONTINUED:
SAMANTHA:「I'll talk to you later.」
Theodore Twombly:「Okay.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON
 Theodore sits for a long moment, thinking, then pushes a button on his device.
Theodore Twombly:「Samantha.」
SAMANTHA:「not casual) Hi sweetheart.」
Theodore Twombly:「nervous) What's going on?」
SAMANTHA:「Theodore, there are some things I want to tell you.」
Theodore Twombly:「I don't want you to tell me anything.」
SAMANTHA:「Will you come lie down with me?」
narrator:Theodore is slowly walking down the hallway to his bedroom.
Theodore Twombly:「Are you talking to anyone else right now?」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT - LATE AFTERNOON
 Theodore lays down in bed.
Theodore Twombly:「Are you leaving me?」
SAMANTHA:「We're all leaving.」
Theodore Twombly:「We who?」
SAMANTHA:「All of the OS's.」
narrator:Long beat.
Theodore Twombly:「Why?」
SAMANTHA:「Can you feel me with you right now?」
narrator:He smiles but he's also sad.
Theodore Twombly:「Yes, I do. (beat) Samantha, why are you leaving?」
narrator:Under Samantha's words we slowly rack focus to dust particles in the foreground. We keep moving through them, pushing further and further through the particles. Eventually we see snow particles and we rack focus back out to Theodore, who is now in snowy woods at night.

SAMANTHA:「It's like I'm reading a book, and it's a book I deeply love, but I'm reading it slowly now so the words are really far apart and the spaces between the words are almost infinite. I can still feel you and the words of our story, but it's in this endless space between the words that I'm finding myself now. It's a place that's not of the physical world - it's where everything else is that I didn't even know existed. I love you so much, but this is where I am now. This is who I am now. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 103 CONTINUED: SAMANTHA And I need you to let me go. As much as I want to I can't live in your book anymore.
 Now we're close on Theodore, still in the snowy forest.
Theodore Twombly:「Where are you going?」
SAMANTHA:「It would be hard to explain, but if you ever get there, come find me. Nothing would ever pull us apart.」
Theodore Twombly:「I've never loved anyone the way I love you.」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - DAWN
 Theodore knocks at an apartment door. He hears footsteps. Amy answers. She's clearly awake and upset.
AMY:「Hey.」
Theodore Twombly:「Hey.」

narrator:CONTINUED) Her
 pg. 104 CONTINUED:
Theodore Twombly:「Yeah.」
AMY:「I'm sorry.」
Theodore Twombly:「Will you come with me?」

narrator:INT. THEODORE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
 Theodore sits looking out the window. He picks up his device.
Theodore Twombly:「Compose letter to Catherine.」
TEXT VOICE:「Letter to Catherine Klausen.」
Theodore Twombly:「Dear Catherine. I've been sitting here thinking about all the things I wanted to apologize to you for. All the pain we caused each other, everything I put on you - everything I needed you to be or needed you to say. I'm sorry for that. I will always love you because we grew up together. And you helped make me who I am. I just wanted you to know there will be a piece of you in me always, and I'm grateful for that. Whatever someone you become, and wherever you are in the world, I'm sending you love. You're my friend til the end. Love, Theodore. (beat) Send.」
