narrator:INT. LOWER EAST SIDE RAILROAD FLAT -- BEDROOM -- MORNING
 3
 SUBTITLE: "Eight Years Later"
 Tiny kitchen, clutter, a MESSENGER BIKE hanging from hooks on the wall, a lot of books. There is a PHONE RINGING under the bed.
 TYLER ROTH, early twenties, handsome, looking haggard. He is sitting on the floor, shirtless, bed head, wrapped in a blanket. A GUITAR is on his lap. Tyler has propped some well worn, hand written pages of MUSIC against a box of off-brand laundry detergent and is squinting at the notes, frustration etched in his face.
 A forgettable BLONDE lies sleeping on the bed.
 Tyler, not a born musician, is trying to teach himself one of the PHRASES OF MUSIC in front of him. He is completely lost in the moment, with DEEP GROOVES in his fingers. By the ASHTRAY next to him, we can tell he's been at this a couple of hours.
 The Blonde in the bed re: the ringing phone...
 BLONDE (out of it) Hello?
 Tyler gropes around the floor with one hand until he finds the phone, simultaneously glancing at the digital clock. His eyes widen in alarm.
Tyler Hawkins:「Yeah... (listens) Of course. I'm on my way. I know...I know...I know...I know.」

narrator:EXT. GREEN WOOD CEMETERY --BROOKLYN -- LATER
 4
 A cluster of MOURNERS stand before a tombstone in the distance. They are not in funeral dress, as this is not a funeral. It's a memorial.
 A beat up GYPSY CAB with a WEST INDIAN DRIVER pulls to a stop. From the trees and the sky we know its LATE SPRING/EARLY SUMMER. A gorgeous day.
 Tyler gets out of the cab, holding the rim of his empty coffee cup in his teeth. He sorts a rumpled wad of singles and hands some to the driver, who screeches into reverse. Time is money.
 Tyler crushes the coffee cup flat and slips it in his jacket pocket then lights up a smoke. He takes one long drag then extinguishes it and slips the butt into his pocket. He begins towards the mourners.
 His mother... DIANE HOFFMAN, a beauty. Past burdens etched in the lines on her face. Dressed tastefully in expensive bohemian. She smiles like someone who's been crying but doesn't want anyone to know she has.
Tyler Hawkins:「sweetly) Hello, your majesty. How are you?」

narrator:The weight of Tyler's gaze falls to CAROLINE ROTH, his diminutive bespectacled, eleven year old sister. She's holding a little paper bag.
 She flashes him a look. He kneels besides her and whispers...
Tyler Hawkins:「Thanks for organizing everybody.」
narrator:Caroline makes a face. Turns her nose away from him.
CAROLINE:「You smell like Listerine and beer.」
narrator:He snorts and kisses her cheek.
 Caroline reaches into her bag and takes out a handful of smooth white stones, on which she has painted the names: "Mom" "Tyler" "Les", "Dad", "Caroline". She begins to arrange them in a little circle on the grave.
 Tyler's father...
 CHARLES ROTH, late fifties, breathes power, precisely dressed, two hundred dollar haircut. A predator.
CHARLES:「aside, to Tyler) You couldn't wear a tie?」
narrator:Tyler holds his father's eye.
Tyler Hawkins:「Could have.」

DIANE:「This is nice... I think it's nice that we still do this...」
CAROLINE:「gently) Mom.」
DIANE:「I forgot. I'm trying to purge "nice" from my vocabulary. Michael would like that we still do this.」
narrator:Tyler takes out a cigarette. Lights it. Without saying a word his mother takes it and snubs it out in an empty water glass.
DIANE:「to Caroline) Did you tell Tyler what your art teacher said about your portrait?」
narrator:Caroline, as bemused as an eleven year old can be, looks at her mother, then at her brother. She adopts a very motherly tone.
CAROLINE:「Tyler, did I tell you what my art teacher said about my portrait?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Why no, Caroline. What did your art teacher say about your portrait?」

Tyler Hawkins:「Young Whistler... good... 'cause Whistler really fell off late in his career. He's the Michael Jackson of European art history.」
DIANE:「She suggested your sister take Pratt's Summer Art Intensive and that's hugely prestigious.」
narrator:Caroline looks a bit sheepish, Tyler high fives Caroline.
 Diane, again, flickers a glance at Charles.
CAROLINE:「I would be the youngest one, ever, practically...」
CHARLES:「Tyler, would you please pass the butter?」
narrator:Beat.
DIANE:「Caroline was speaking.」
Tyler Hawkins:「to Charles) Are you really this clueless? Are you really dismissing her like this?」
narrator:Diane touches Caroline's hair.
CHARLES:「Caroline is perfectly capable of speaking up if she is feeling dismissed. Caroline, are you feeling dismissed?」
CAROLINE:「I'm okay.」
CHARLES:「solicitous, to Caroline) I didn't mean to change the subject.」
Tyler Hawkins:「What was the subject? 8.」

CHARLES:「Excuse me?」
Tyler Hawkins:「The subject we were discussing. What was it?」
narrator:Beat.
CHARLES:「Now's not the time for your heroics Tyler」
Tyler Hawkins:「No. It's the perfect time.」
narrator:Charles makes a minute adjustment to his collar.
 Father and son lock eyes until...
Tyler Hawkins:「whispering, to Caroline) Do you need me to take you anywhere?」
narrator:Caroline shakes her head.
CAROLINE:「I'll stay with mom.」
narrator:Diane glares at her ex-husband.
 Tyler rises and kisses his sister's forehead.
Tyler Hawkins:「Then I'll see you after school.」

narrator:INT. WALL STREET COFFEE SHOP -- AFTER
 7
 Tyler in his pants and white tee shirt looks completely out of place amidst all the business types.
 He sits in the last booth facing the street. His tattered JOURNAL lies open in front of him, a BINDER CLIP holds his page as he works quietly crafting an entry.
 The HOSTESS, tired, in her 60's, slides a piece of baklava on the table as she shuffles past.
 HOSTESS Eat something.
 Tyler gives her a huge grin.
Tyler Hawkins:「Yes, ma'am.」

narrator:EXT. 4TH STREET -- JUST AFTER
 8
 Tyler and his roommate, AIDAN BREWER, 22, energetic, inappropriate, walking west towards N.Y.U. Young people in easy, summery dress. Tyler smokes. Aidan doesn't. Aidan remembers something, smirks.
AIDAN:「I sold your girlfriend a toothbrush.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You sold my who? ...What?」
AIDAN:「That voluptuous, delightfully oblivious little blonde you left in your bed this morning... I sold her a toothbrush. Got three bucks.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Congratulations?」
AIDAN:「Are in order, yes. Because that sale inspired our newest business venture: "The S.L.U.T."」
Tyler Hawkins:「I was unaware we had a previous business venture. 10.」

AIDAN:「The 'Single Lady's Universal Tote'. It's the one-night-stand travel pack for women. We throw in some make-up, toiletries, cell phone charger, cab numbers. Retail it at S19.95, maybe do an infomercial.」
Tyler Hawkins:「And you think women would buy this? With money?」
AIDAN:「Hey one-night-stands happen... It's a part of life... like stubbing your toe. Sometimes you misjudge a corner and bend back your pinky toe, other times you wake up in a freshman dorm wearing a field hockey tee shirt wondering why your balls smell like cinnamon...」
Tyler Hawkins:「nodding sagely) Of course. Yes.」
AIDAN:「Don't underestimate the novelty gift market. Think about it... instead of giving that token slutty friend a ten-inch purple dildo for her birthday, you hook her up with "The SLUT." Everyone has a laugh and the implication that she'll probably use it someday remains. What do you say? Are you down?」
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm down with getting you on some sort of medication.」

AIDAN:「OK...fine...be cynical...just remember at some point in history two people had a conversation just like this about the light bulb. One of them went on to fame and fortune and the other one probably went to work at Mickey D's or something.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Or Denny's. Denny's was big in the 19th century. 11.」

narrator:The statue is warm, the bronze absorbing the late spring sun. Tyler is perched on the Mad Hatter, his face turned towards the sun while Caroline hides with the dormouse.
 Tyler lights a cigarette. AN UPTIGHT MOMMY glares at him.
 UPTIGHT MOMMY Why don't we make this a non- smoking statue?
CAROLINE:「emerging) Yeah, Tyler . Why don't we make this a non-smoking statue?」
narrator:He makes a face.
CAROLINE:「You promised you'd quit...」
Tyler Hawkins:「I know.」
CAROLINE:「You're gonna get emphysema and then you're gonna have to drag an oxygen tank with you everywhere...」
Tyler Hawkins:「You think that would be the worst part about having emphysema?」
CAROLINE:「Everywhere you go, Tyler. Even the bathroom.」
narrator:Tyler takes a final drag. Tosses it on the ground.
CAROLINE:「Why do you think Dad doesn't wanna...like, listen to me?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Dad loves you.」

Tyler Hawkins:「You've got that right.」
CAROLINE:「Mom loves Aunt Sara. But at Christmas, last year, she wouldn't let Les leave them in a room together 'cause she said there would be a "yule tide homicide."」
Tyler Hawkins:「That's because Aunt Sara drinks... You don't drink, right?」
CAROLINE:「Duh.」
Tyler Hawkins:「So why would anyone wanna avoid you?」
narrator:Caroline shrugs, not convinced. A silent moment passes.
CAROLINE:「Michael used to drink.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Yeah. He did. But Michael was 21. All 21 year olds drink because it's new and exciting. Aunt Sara drinks because she wishes she was 21.」

narrator:INT. THE STRAND BOOKSTORE -- DAY
 13
 Tyler on a rolling ladder, shuffling books around. Aidan on the floor, eating two pieces of pizza, folded down the middle, at the same time.
AIDAN:「What about Atlantic City for your birthday this year? Get a suite. Couple of ladies. You could call Toothbrush Girl, what do you think?」
Tyler Hawkins:「I think I'd rather be sodomized. 14.」

AIDAN:「Hey, it's your day.」
narrator:He gestures to the shelves.
AIDAN:「What's the point? How do you know where anything is in this place, anyway? There's like...」
narrator:AIDAN/TYLER "Eight Miles of Books!"
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't expect you to appreciate this, but the schematic for this particular shelf is authors who were sleeping together...」
AIDAN:「No shit?」
Tyler Hawkins:「And ended up dead or in prison.」
narrator:Beat.
AIDAN:「This is why chicks dig you.」
narrator:Tyler laughs.
AIDAN:「Seriously. They like this freaky poetic crap. I ran into Megan yesterday. She's bartending at Don Hill's tonight. She wants us to stop by. She practically begged me.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Eh.」
narrator:Aidan, visibly frustrated with Tyler's reluctance, grabs the rolling ladder and pushes Tyler into the Romance novels.
Tyler Hawkins:「Hey!」
AIDAN:「Hey nothing. You've been a ghost the past couple weeks. You never wanna go out. I'm feeling unappreciated here. (MORE) 15.
 I can't deal with this brooding introvert shit anymore man. I'm ready to set up an intervention.」

narrator:A silent moment passes.
Tyler Hawkins:「You realize interventions typically discourage binge drinking?」
AIDAN:「One drink. Come out for one drink.」
Tyler Hawkins:「When's the last time you had one drink?」

narrator:INT. DON HILL'S -- THAT NIGHT
 14
 A hip venue on Greenwich Street. Deejay. Music pumping. Aidan and Tyler make their way through the crowd to a congested bar where the CUTE BARTENDER is swamped.
AIDAN:「Hey, Megan!」
narrator:She ignores him.
AIDAN:「You look great! Can I get two Heinekens?」
narrator:MEGAN Do. Not. Speak.
 Tyler snorts with laughter.
AIDAN:「genuine) Is she mad at me or something?」
Tyler Hawkins:「No no. Girls are like that when they're way into you.」

narrator:Aidan flashes a winning smile.
AIDAN:「Well, hello...」
narrator:GIRL #1 Could you take a picture for us?
 She holds out her camera. Aidan hesitates, then smiles.
AIDAN:「My pleasure...」
narrator:The girls pose. Aidan takes the camera. Turns it around. Extends it. Smiles. And promptly SNAPS A PICTURE OF HIMSELF. He casually returns the camera to the confused young woman.
 Megan returns and practically flings the beers at Aidan.
AIDAN:「Thanks. You've met my roommate...」
narrator:MEGAN I hope you die.
 Tyler laughs his ass off.
Tyler Hawkins:「She's all over you. Cheers.」

Tyler Hawkins:「You ever actually been to any of those places?」

narrator:Aidan gives Tyler's elbow a gentle tug. Tyler's caught up in the action.
 NEANDERTHAL#1 I don't even know the bitch.
 Rage flickers across Craig's face.
 Craig moves down the line to one of the musicians, going through their pockets.
CRAIG:「How about you two?」
narrator:Tyler, compelled, drawing closer to the action.
 MUSICIAN#1 It wasn't us, man!
 NEANDERTHAL#1 That cocksucker kicked my car!
CRAIG:「Shut up, genius.」
narrator:MUSICIAN#1 (to Neanderthal) Eat shit, pencil dick.
CRAIG:「Alright. That's it. Everybody goes downtown.」
narrator:Tyler steps forward, interrupting...
Tyler Hawkins:「It wasn't them.」
narrator:Aidan, who has been edging away, jerks around to his friend.
AIDAN:「sotto) Tyler...」
LEO:「quietly, to the guys) Take a walk, I said.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Hey!」

Tyler Hawkins:「They didn't do anything. They didn't start this. Those assholes did. Why do these guys have to go downtown?」
CRAIG:「What are you still doing here?」
Tyler Hawkins:「This is bullshit. It was those gorillas who started this.」
narrator:Craig moves slowly toward Tyler and starts going through Tyler's pockets, roughly. He finds his wallet. Starts rifling through.
CRAIG:「Well, Mr. Roth. What makes you think I give a shit?」
Tyler Hawkins:「You're a police officer. You're supposed to.」
narrator:What the hell? Craig looks from the guy he was frisking to Tyler's girl, wrapped in a blanket. She spits blood. He turns a bit to Tyler.
CRAIG:「It's a great relief to me, Mr. Roth, to know that you're on top of the situation. Now go the fuck home.」
narrator:He turns back to work.
 Tyler looks briefly at Aidan. Aidan looks desperate "Please! Let's get out of here!"
 Tyler TOUCHES CRAIG'S ELBOW.
 Aidan's jaw drops. Leo takes several silent steps in. Craig looks at his own elbow then looks at Tyler. The kid must be out of his mind.
Tyler Hawkins:「How about you do your job?」

narrator:INT. PEARL STREET LOCKUP -- AFTER
 17
 Who knows what time it is. A lovely ASSORTMENT OF PERPETRATORS, Tyler and the musicians are in lockup. Everybody looks like shit. Tyler sits on a bench in the holding cell, looking quite relaxed.
 The lock up door slides open and Aidan is returned to the perch. The ESCORTING OFFICER shouts across the din to Tyler.
 ESCORTING OFFICER You can have your call now.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm good.」
narrator:The door slides shut behind Aidan.
AIDAN:「You're good? Thank God you're good.」
narrator:Beat.
AIDAN:「What are you trying to do? What did you want from that cop guy?」
Tyler Hawkins:「That was a messed up situation. Those guys...」
narrator:He cups his hands to make a megaphone...
Tyler Hawkins:「Are pussies!」
narrator:From Off Screen a chorus of:
 NEANDERTHAL#1 O/S Faggot!
 NEANDERTHAL#2 O/S Candy-ass faggot!
 NEANDERTHAL#3 O/S Fag!
Tyler Hawkins:「There was no justice in that situation.」

AIDAN:「No justice. Okay, Green Hornet ... Lantern ... Asshole. (MORE) 23.
 You may not be actually matriculating in school, you may be having a nice time by yourself lurking in the stacks of your book store, but I actually plan on graduating, and having a career and a wife and a girlfriend and a divorce and a mid-life stalking episode and erectile dysfunction, and I will thank you to keep your complexes and nihilistic bullshit...」
Tyler Hawkins:「Did you just say "nihilistic"?」

narrator:INT. EXECUTIVE FLOOR -- RECEPTION -- DAY
 20
 Tyler and his messed up face on his feet in the waiting area. English Club chairs, green baize on the walls. A RECEPTIONIST types away across the room. Tyler takes out a cigarette. Lights it. Draws the ire of...
 THE RECEPTIONIST You know you can't smoke in here.
 Tyler looks down at a heavy crystal ash tray on the coffee table in front of him. It's clearly never been used.
Tyler Hawkins:「So what's with the ash tray?」
narrator:THE RECEPTIONIST It completes the room.
 Tyler takes a long drag, grinding out the ember on the pristine surface. He smiles a charming smile at the aggravated woman.
Tyler Hawkins:「Tease.」

narrator:INT. EXECUTIVE FLOOR -- HALLWAY -- AFTER
 21
 Tyler follows Janine down the corridor. She looks him up and down, doesn't like what she sees.
JANINE:「You're too skinny. And you smell like french fries and cigarettes.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Nice to see you too.」
JANINE:「You want me to lie?」
narrator:Tyler smiles, he likes that she doesn't lie. Janine scrolls through a Palm Pilot as she walks. They approach the double doors to Charles' office.
JANINE:「Try not to give him a heart attack.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Okay.」

narrator:INT. CAVERNOUS EXECUTIVE OFFICE -- LATER
 22
 A row of floor-to-ceiling windows blocked by vertical blinds. Sunlight glows behind them. There's a lot of leather, brass and rich wood, breathing power. There's a flat screen computer, but no personal effects anywhere.
 Charles sits at his massive desk. As Tyler enters, Charles registers his injuries. A flicker of something over Charles' face. Tyler stands.
Tyler Hawkins:「I came to see how much it costs, because I'm giving you the money back.」

Tyler Hawkins:「That lawyer.」
narrator:Beat.
CHARLES:「Ah. That lawyer, Tyler, costs 450 dollars an hour.」
narrator:In spite of himself...
Tyler Hawkins:「Christ.」
CHARLES:「Tell me about it.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I wanted to make sure you understood it wasn't me who called you.」
CHARLES:「I understand. You could do worse than have a father who bails you out of jail」
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't want to be bailed out of anything.」
narrator:Charles looks at his son.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll get an invoice from Janine.」

narrator:EXT. PRIVATE SCHOOL. JUST AFTER.
 25
 It's just after three, Caroline emerges from school in a CLUSTER OF 6TH GRADE GIRLS. One of them dips her head towards Caroline's ear, as if to share a secret. Whatever she says makes Caroline's face crumble, almost to tears, and the girls snicker.
 Tyler hops from his perch on a parked car. His bike leans on a fire hydrant.
Tyler Hawkins:「to Caroline) Hey.」
narrator:He looks at the girls, sizing them up, and flicks his cigarette to the sidewalk, cool as hell. The girls have a group swoon.
 He takes Caroline by the elbow...
Tyler Hawkins:「Excuse us, we're due in surgery.」
narrator:He gets his bike and leads her down the block, towards Fifth Avenue.
CAROLINE:「What happened to your face?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Horrible threshing accident.」
CAROLINE:「You're so retarded.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Don't mock the afflicted. Here, I brought you something.」
narrator:He hands her the book of Myths.

Tyler Hawkins:「This was my favorite book ever. Michael had it and he hit me over the head with it until I read it. Its about all these God and Goddesses who spend all of their time being jealous and petty and otherwise acting like human beings. The illustrations are amazing.」

CAROLINE:「Ooh. These are cool. Thanks! Where are we meeting mom?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Guggenheim. What's up with those girls?」
CAROLINE:「I just...they think I'm weird. Sometimes I sort of space out.」
Tyler Hawkins:「When you're drawing?」
CAROLINE:「Yeah. Other times too. Madamoiselle Fleischman had to snap her fingers at me a lot today. And everybody laughed and they all think I'm a freak of nature.」
narrator:Caroline takes a brief glance over her shoulder, towards the school.
Tyler Hawkins:「Je m'appelle "Freak of Nature."」
narrator:Caroline smirks.
Tyler Hawkins:「Mon dieu, mon soeurette! Je m'appelle "Freak of Nature". Sacre Bleu. French Toast.」
CAROLINE:「What are you going to tell mom about your face?」
Tyler Hawkins:「I finally found something I'm good at?」

narrator:INT. RAILROAD FLAT-- LIVING ROOM -- DAY
 27
 Tyler, again with the guitar. Aidan enters, excited.
AIDAN:「He's got a daughter.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Who?」
AIDAN:「The cop... The cop who busted your face all up. He's got a daughter. And she's hot! I smell revenge!」
Tyler Hawkins:「Revenge. What do you want me to do, kidnap her?」
AIDAN:「You introduce yourself...go on a few dates...be your charming, gentlemanly self... And then, flip the script.」
Tyler Hawkins:「What does that mean? 31.」

AIDAN:「Screw her brains out and make her call you daddy. Steal her underwear and sell it on ebay. Put her in Clown Shoes, take lewd photos and post them on her high school's home page. I don't know. Be creative.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You should be incarcerated on general principle.」
AIDAN:「Hey. What happened to you was very emasculating. Tell me you don't want to get that asshole and I'll drop it.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't want to get that asshole.」
AIDAN:「Just meet her.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't want to meet her.」
AIDAN:「She's cute.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't care.」
AIDAN:「You're meeting her.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm not meeting her.」

narrator:INT. COFFEE SHOP. WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK.- DAY
 28
 A Student Hangout. The place is bustling. Numerous NYU STUDENTS move, sit, eat, lounge. Aidan scans the crowd. Tyler stands beside him looking far less enthusiastic.
Tyler Hawkins:「This is one of those moments I'm already regretting.」

Tyler Hawkins:「What am I supposed to say to this girl? "Hey doll face, your dad trampled all over my civil liberties, wanna make out?"」
AIDAN:「Well don't call her doll face.」
narrator:Ally enters. She wears a big sweatshirt. Aidan spots her.
AIDAN:「There. The brunette.」
narrator:Tyler watches her settle into a couch with a big cup of coffee.
Tyler Hawkins:「I know her. I mean, I don't know her, but, I've seen her. She's in my global politics class.」
AIDAN:「There you go! Something to open with. Now get over there.」
narrator:Tyler sighs, begins toward Ally.
AIDAN:「Shazam!」
narrator:Tyler glares. Aidan gives a big thumbs up.
Tyler Hawkins:「Excuse me?」
narrator:Ally briefly looks up from her book.
Tyler Hawkins:「My name's Tyler Roth. I was wondering if I could bother you for a minute?」
narrator:He gives her a charming smile.
ALLY:「You're already bothering me.」
narrator:Beat. The smile usually works.

Tyler Hawkins:「Um, I'm doing kind of a sociological experiment...I was hoping you could help me out. 33.」

narrator:Ally looks at him, a little wearily, holding her place in the book.
ALLY:「What are you, kidding me?」
narrator:Tyler is genuinely taken aback.
Tyler Hawkins:「No, I... may I ask your name?」
ALLY:「Anonymous. It's Greek. It means "you don't have a shot".」
narrator:A surprised laugh escapes from Tyler.
Tyler Hawkins:「Okay, Anonymous, do you see the guy across the room, pretending to read a text book, looking in this general direction?」
narrator:Aidan holds a MATH TEXTBOOK at an awkward angle to mask his obvious interest in Ally and Tyler's conversation.
ALLY:「Subtle.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I have this theory that an objective third-party, having no prior contact, would be able to determine how much of an asshole he is just by looking at him.」
ALLY:「Ah.」
Tyler Hawkins:「He's my roommate. And I've witnessed so many glaring examples of assaholic behavior that I'm biased as a subject, but I'm convinced that he has an aura, that people can actually perceive. So, just take a good long look. And tell me what you think?」

Tyler Hawkins:「No one here. The parameters called only to sample attractive women in their early twenties.」
ALLY:「I'm nineteen.」
Tyler Hawkins:「In their late teens. (beat) Well, look, you typically get something for participating in these things and I've run out of those big foam fingers, so I was thinking maybe I could take you out some night?」
narrator:She looks at him.
Tyler Hawkins:「Or you could just go out with me on the off chance we'd have an interesting conversation.」
ALLY:「I don't date sociology majors... they're a rowdy bunch.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Indeed they are. Lucky for you, I'm undecided.」
ALLY:「About what?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Everything.」

narrator:EXT. FIRE ESCAPE. RAILROAD FLAT.
 31
Tyler Hawkins:「Hey. It's Tyler.」
narrator:INTERCUT:
 Ally winces.
ALLY:「Hi.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You're going to stand me up. I can feel it in my bones. I'll be devastated.」
ALLY:「No... I...I was just...」
Tyler Hawkins:「You were just sitting around in your pajamas watching T.V.」
ALLY:「No. I'm not watching T.V. I'm just...getting dressed.」
narrator:She wipes her hands on her sweats, smearing them with chocolate.
ALLY:「And I'm going to meet you at the place at..what time again?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Eight.」

ALLY:「to the waiter) What desserts do you have?」
narrator:WAITER Dessert special fried bananas a la mode.
ALLY:「Great, I'll have that. A glass of skim milk. Then the mussels, please.」
narrator:Tyler and the Waiter share a look.
Tyler Hawkins:「Pad Thai and a Sapporo. Thanks.」
narrator:The Waiter takes the menus.
ALLY:「I have my dessert first.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Is this a political statement? A medical condition?」
ALLY:「I just don't see the point in waiting for something I know I want and am going to have. What if I die eating my mussels?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Is that probable?」
ALLY:「It's possible. If an embolism burst or an asteroid hit the restaurant, I'd die without having eaten the thing I wanted most.」
Tyler Hawkins:「But the odds are, I mean...」

narrator:EXT. LEMONGRASS GRILL-- NIGHT
 34
 Tyler and Ally exit out onto the street. Tyler immediately takes out his cigarettes, his lighter, then he notices... Ally looking at him disappointed.
ALLY:「Really?」
narrator:Tyler takes the cue puts the packet and lighter away. A beat.
ALLY:「I had a nice time.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You had a nice time or you're having a nice time?」
narrator:Ally considers.
Tyler Hawkins:「Because if you're having one, why rush to end it?」

narrator:EXT. STREET FESTIVAL (A LA SAN GENNARO) -- GREENWICH VILLAGE -- 35 AFTER
 They approach a CARNIVAL GAME, one those ubiquitous basketball tosses. THE ATTENDANT badgers passersby to test their luck. GIANT STUFFED ANIMALS hang all around it.
 Tyler pays the Attendant, gets the basketballs. Tosses one, two, the third, then nothing. Game over.
Tyler Hawkins:「Did I tell you I'm Caucasian? 40.」

ALLY:「Apparently.」
narrator:Tyler pays again, wipes out again. Game over. Tyler pays again. Loses again. He's visibly frustrated now.
ALLY:「Can't we just stroll while I feed you ice cream with fireworks in the background?」
Tyler Hawkins:「No. If I stop, he wins.」
ALLY:「Who, the attendant?」
Tyler Hawkins:「No, the frigging Giant Panda.」

narrator:EXT. SIDEWALK -- LATER
 36
 Ally carries a GIANT PANDA under her arm. Tyler walking beside her with a self-satisfied smile.
ALLY:「I don't know what you're smiling about.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I won.」
ALLY:「Paying off the attendant is not winning... It's cheating.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I just paid a premium to cut out the middle man. That's innovation. That's free market enterprising. That's what made America great.」
ALLY:「Aha. By the way, what happened to your eye?」
narrator:Tyler touches the bandage.
Tyler Hawkins:「Oh, it's nothing, just a bar fight. 41.」

ALLY:「How butch.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I know. I'm practically a pirate.」
ALLY:「Okay, Captain Morgan...」
Tyler Hawkins:「laughing) You've got some serious timing.」
narrator:ALL It's getting late.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll walk you to the train.」

narrator:EXT. SIDEWALK -- JUST AFTER
 37
 Tyler is just hailing her a taxi. He stands there holding the door open.
ALLY:「Thanks.」
narrator:Beat.
 Tyler leans in to kiss her. Ally turns away.
ALLY:「Not tonight. Not never... just... not tonight.」
narrator:CAB DRIVER We goin' or what?
ALLY:「Hey! Turn on the meter.」
narrator:Tyler respectfully leans back.
Tyler Hawkins:「So dessert before dinner for fear of death by rogue asteroid... yes. Kissing guy you're obviously attracted to before driving off into the unknown New York night... no. 42.」

narrator:EXT. PRIVATE SCHOOL. THE LAST DAY OF SCHOOL.
 38
 Caroline exiting with the crowd. One of the Bitchy girls shoulder checks her from behind as she passes. Tyler, waiting on his perch, catches it, walks up to her.
Tyler Hawkins:「Happy end of sixth grade!」

narrator:EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- ALICE IN WONDERLAND STATUE -- AFTERNOON39
 CHILDREN climbing all over the bronze statue. Caroline among them. She sits on a mushroom cap, letting her legs dangle. Tyler watches her from their usual bench, his bike leaning next to him.
CAROLINE:「They have me in this art program summer thing at Pratt...」
Tyler Hawkins:「I heard.」
CAROLINE:「It's very prestigious due to my artistic greatness.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Don't pretend. I know you're proud. You should be.」

CAROLINE:「There's, like, a thing...」
Tyler Hawkins:「A thing?」
CAROLINE:「sheepish) A show where you show what you've done and stuff. Will you come?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Let me check my book. Abso-freaking- lutely. I'm camping out. I'm sleeping there the night before.」
narrator:Caroline is secretly thrilled.
CAROLINE:「You're so retarded. Mom's been hyperventilating with joy.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Good. I'm sure Les was...」
narrator:TYLER/CAROLINE "Really supportive"!
CAROLINE:「Your school's over, right?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Yes, it's over. Did Mom and Les get the beach house again?」
CAROLINE:「Yup. What are we going to do for your birthday?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Nothing.」
CAROLINE:「Can we have a party?」
Tyler Hawkins:「No.」
CAROLINE:「A little one? At Mom's? With Aidan. I'll make Mom behave. No crying.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Like that's possible. 44.」

narrator:INT. RAILROAD FLAT-- NIGHT -- DEEPER INTO SUMMER
 40
 Ally explores Tyler's living room with a tumbler of wine. It's in a state of medium disarray. He clocks her looking.
Tyler Hawkins:「I know. But we have coasters.」
ALLY:「I don't do coasters till the third date.」
narrator:She looks over his posters, pictures, etc. Tyler scans a stack of CDs, he selects Radiohead's KID A, puts it in. The hypnotic first track fills the room.
 Ally comes across a FRAMED PHOTO of a band on stage. The lead guitarist looks like Tyler with long hair.
ALLY:「Is that you?」
Tyler Hawkins:「That's Michael. My brother.」
ALLY:「He looks like you... or you look like him. Does he play around here?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Not any more.」
narrator:Ally notices the old guitar in the corner.
ALLY:「Do you play?」
Tyler Hawkins:「It depends who you ask.」
ALLY:「If I asked anybody?」
Tyler Hawkins:「They'd say no. I try but it turns out you need talent.」

Tyler Hawkins:「Falconry. I come from a long line of falconers.」
ALLY:「There's a lot of money in that.」
narrator:Tyler smiles. He's actually a hair nervous.
Tyler Hawkins:「Well there is one thing...」
narrator:Tyler walks to the kitchen counter where a cleaned and polished COVERED CAKE STAND sits.
ALLY:「What's that?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Our appetizer.」
narrator:Tyler lifts off the cover to reveal a GERMAN CHOCOLATE CAKE. He's written a message in the icing: "In Case Of Ast-- and then a piece has been crudely cut out. Ally's surprised.
Tyler Hawkins:「It used to say "In Case Of Asteroid" but I took a shower and Aidan got high.」

narrator:INT. KITCHEN -- LATER THAT NIGHT
 41
 Ally and Tyler stand in front of a sink full of dirty dishes, up to their elbows in soapy water.
ALLY:「So what kind of grade did you end up with from Vogelstein?」
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't actually get grades.」
narrator:Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm not technically enrolled. I worked out an auditing thing.」

Tyler Hawkins:「I like the books.」
narrator:He indicates the dishes.
Tyler Hawkins:「You don't have to help me, you know.」
ALLY:「At the rate you're going, dish washing is going to be your life's vocation. I can say I knew you when.」
narrator:He flicks a bit of water on her shirt. Ally takes a beat.
ALLY:「This is the playful, you get me all wet part? Right?」
Tyler Hawkins:「horsing around) You make it sound so cheap.」
narrator:Ally's not having it.
ALLY:「It is cheap. I've seen this scene a hundred times.」
narrator:Tyler's a little confused.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm sorry. I didn't...」

narrator:INT. BATHROOM -- SECONDS LATER
 42
 Tyler bursts through the bathroom door. Ally over his shoulder. Never one to waste a moment, she uses the opportunity to check out what's in his wallet. He turns on the shower. She has his drivers licence.
Tyler Hawkins:「Apologize.」
ALLY:「Never. Your middle name is Keats? Your parents are pretentious as hell.」
narrator:Tyler turns on the shower and tosses Ally into the water. She dances to avoid the stream. Ally grabs the portable shower head and turns it at him.
 Tyler jumps into the tub to avoid the spray. They wrestle for the shower head.
Tyler Hawkins:「Apologize.」
ALLY:「I'd rather eat monkeys.」
narrator:This cracks Tyler up. He stops struggling for the shower and gasps a little with laughter, putting up his hands in surrender. Ally stands there, holding the shower head, giggling.
 They lock eyes for a moment. The air is charged.
 Ally spritzes him in the face.
Tyler Hawkins:「I surrender! Oh my God, you're relentless. 48.」

narrator:INT. BATH TUB -- LATER
 43
 Tyler and Ally lie side-by-side, drenched. Their feet hang over the edge of the tub. Tyler reaches into his pocket and removes a dripping cigarette packet. He squeezes out water.
Tyler Hawkins:「Now... I'm furious.」
narrator:He tosses them in a waste basket.
ALLY:「You should quit anyway.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Really? Why? Are cigarettes like bad for you or something?」
narrator:Ally playfully slaps him. She notices the tip of Tyler's TATTOO peeking out of his undershirt.
ALLY:「Is that a tattoo? Let me see.」
Tyler Hawkins:「It's not really...」
ALLY:「Please. It's very bad ass. All that ritualistic scarring.」
narrator:Tyler peels the soaked garment off his back as Ally offers polite applause. Michael's name becomes clear. Ally takes a long look. She sees Tyler's not smiling anymore. She gets it.
ALLY:「I'm sorry... I didn't... I didn't realize.」
narrator:She looks at him. Asking with out asking.
Tyler Hawkins:「He killed himself.」

ALLY:「When?」
Tyler Hawkins:「When he was 21. He had just started working for my father.」
narrator:Ally is gently picking spaghetti and tomatoes off Tyler.
ALLY:「I thought he was a musician.」
Tyler Hawkins:「He was. But he wasn't making a living doing music and my father's a very compelling guy.」
ALLY:「Mine too.」
narrator:Ally looks away for a moment. Tucks a curl behind her ear.
 Then they look at each other. Ally opens her mouth to speak.
 Aidan bursts in. He's drunk, loud, wearing an Irish Flag like a cape. He carries a bottle of whiskey and a can of Guinness.
AIDAN:「Damn, you're not naked.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You're not Irish.」
AIDAN:「T, What happened in the kitchen? It looks like somebody's water broke. (notices Ally) Hi.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Ally, Aidan... Aidan, Ally.」

AIDAN:「Well, I-- (realizes what she said) Wait. What?」
narrator:Tyler and Ally laugh. Aidan's too drunk to care.
AIDAN:「Alright, you two. Up. Dressed. Let's go. "Around The World" party on the third floor... a lot of ugly but a lot more alcohol. Let's go.」
ALLY:「I can't, I would, I'd love to, but I've gotta get home, my dad's waiting up.」
AIDAN:「Ally. Ally. Listen to me, young lady. One drink. From any country. I'll even put France on the table. One drink. Your choice. And we're gone.」
ALLY:「to Tyler) One drink?」
Tyler Hawkins:「to Aidan) One drink?」

narrator:INT. BATHROOM -- LATER
 44
 Ally VOMITS in their toilet. Tyler holds her hair back. Aidan appears in the doorway still wearing that flag.
AIDAN:「Hey, how we doin'?」
narrator:Ally tries to speak, all we hear is a series of groans. Then she dry heaves again. Tyler shoots Aidan a look.
AIDAN:「What? What do you want me to say? That I'm sorry? You want me to say I"m sorry? (MORE) 51.
 You want me to apologize for showing a nice girl a good time? Is that it?」
narrator:Tyler just looks at him. Aidan considers.
AIDAN:「I'm sorry.」
ALLY:「Tyler...」
narrator:Tyler kneels down. Ally pushes her purse at him, she looks like she's about to pass out.
ALLY:「I, need, you... to call... my dad.」
narrator:Tyler and Aidan share a look. Aidan shrugs.
Tyler Hawkins:「Oh. OK. Sure.」
narrator:Tyler pulls out her cellphone - the battery is dead.
Tyler Hawkins:「Your phone's dead. Just tell me the number and I'll call him...」

narrator:Tyler turns around to find Ally passed out on the floor. He tries to gently nudge her awake.
Tyler Hawkins:「Ally? Ally?」

narrator:EXT. RAILROAD FLAT-- ROOFTOP -- DAY
 49
 Sunshine beats down on a little make-shift rooftop hideaway, a few old beach chairs, a stereo, a weight bench. Aidan works out with an old set of dumb bells. Tyler sits on a beach chair, trying again with the guitar.
AIDAN:「So? She just left? No good bye?」
narrator:Tyler nods, strumming like he's wearing boxing gloves. Aidan finishes up a set.
AIDAN:「Maybe she heard you play the guitar.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You were the one dumping Jello shots down her throat. You almost killed her.」

narrator:Aidan lifts. It's too heavy and falls to his chest. Tyler forgoes his spotting duty, lets him struggle. Aidan strains.
AIDAN:「little help, T... little help, little help, lotta help... TYLER?!」
narrator:Tyler blows three perfect smoke rings. Finally he puts down the guitar and helps get the bar up. Aidan panting, rubbing his chest.
AIDAN:「What the hell was that?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Penance. I have to get to work.」

narrator:INT. LIVING ROOM -- SUNSET
 51
 Aidan sits on the couch still in his gym clothes drinking a protein shake out of a blender. Tyler comes out of his bedroom gently closing the door behind him.
AIDAN:「How's she doin'?」
Tyler Hawkins:「She's pretty shaken up.」
narrator:Tyler takes a seat beside him. Takes out a cigarette.
Tyler Hawkins:「We've really got to fix that dead bolt.」
AIDAN:「My bad. Sorry.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Don't be. You think she'll sleep? 56.」

AIDAN:「You realize if she had had the S.L.U.T」
narrator:If looks could kill...
AIDAN:「Too soon?」
narrator:A silent moment passes.
Tyler Hawkins:「I told her she could stay here... Are you alright with that?」

narrator:INT. LIVING ROOM -- LATER THAT NIGHT
 52
 Tyler has just finished making up the ratty sofa as a bed. Ally appears from the bedroom, framed by the open door. She has slept in one of Tyler's button down shirts.
Tyler Hawkins:「You're up.」
narrator:Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「Can I get you anything?」
narrator:She nods.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll be out here if you need me.」

narrator:INT. WALL STREET COFFEE SHOP -- SUNRISE
 56
 The place is empty. A few early RISERS get coffee to go. He sits in the same booth, his journal held open by the binder clip. He writes, a bag of Bialys next to him.
 Janine enters. Orders two coffees. She sees Tyler, smiles. She picks up her coffees and approaches him.
JANINE:「I can't believe you still come down here.」
narrator:Tyler looks up, grins, nods to her coffees.
Tyler Hawkins:「It's not so far. I can't believe you still get his coffee... three sugars, no milk? 58.」

JANINE:「shrugs) Old habits. You're not writing anything bad about me, are you?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Not today.」

narrator:INT. RAILROAD FLAT -- LIVING ROOM -- LATER
 57
 Tyler returns with breakfast. From Aidan's room, a pathetic croak...
 AIDAN O/S Bialy.
 Tyler tosses him a Bialy like he's tossing fish to a seal.
 Ally lies on the couch. Curled in a blanket. A cup of hot tea in hand. She sips it. It stings her lip a little.
Tyler Hawkins:「Hey...」
ALLY:「Hey...」
narrator:Tyler sits. She shifts and curls next to him.
ALLY:「Where did you go?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Downtown. 59.」

ALLY:「Why?」
narrator:Tyler pulls his JOURNAL from his pocket. Hands it to her.
Tyler Hawkins:「There's a coffee shop. I brought you a Bialy.」
ALLY:「New York is full of coffee shops.」
Tyler Hawkins:「This one was our place... Michael's and mine. We had breakfast there all the time ... Maybe not as many times as I think we did. But enough times. Anyway we ate there that morning. It was the last place I saw him.」
ALLY:「Oh. So you go there to write? To him?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Maybe. Sometimes. I don't know. But I guess I wanted to tell him about you.」

narrator:Aidan goes to answer it.
AIDAN:「Hello?」
DIANE:「Aidan, it's Diane.」
narrator:He blinks.
AIDAN:「Oh, hey Diane.」
narrator:He throws down the keys, then yells towards the roof...
AIDAN:「T! It's your mom.」
narrator:With Diane's knock the door swings open.
AIDAN:「Hey Diane.」
narrator:He gives her a kiss on the cheek.
DIANE:「You really have to fix that door. I'm so sorry to just show up. I called but your phone was busy.」
narrator:Aidan looks and realizes that the phone is indeed off the hook, as just the handset, wrapped in duct tape, is visible on top of the sofa.
AIDAN:「No problem. Come on in.」
narrator:Tyler and Ally enter the apartment through the fire escape
Tyler Hawkins:「Hey mom.」

DIANE:「Ally. It's lovely to met you. Just lovely.」
narrator:Diane is pumping Ally's hand like she's drilling for oil.
Tyler Hawkins:「Sit down, Mom. Can I get you something?」

narrator:She starts to drag Aidan out the window, back up the fire escape, but he makes a brief detour.
AIDAN:「Don't freaking bogart that joint, Diane.」
DIANE:「Sorry.」
narrator:She hands it back to him and Aidan and Ally climb away. Tyler sits next to his mom and lights a cigarette.
DIANE:「Well, first, your sister is all excited about your birthday at the house. I wish you'd told me.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I wish she'd told me. It was a unilateral Caroline decision. Will you make sausage and peppers?」
DIANE:「Of course. Tyler, Your father is driving me crazy. I shouldn't even be discussing this with you. I can't get him to say he'll come to your sister's exhibit. Her art exhibit. He says he's in the middle of an IPO.」
narrator:Tyler rubs his eyes.
DIANE:「Les says I shouldn't broker. I should let them be on whatever road they're on.」
narrator:Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll get him there.」
DIANE:「She cares about this, even though she's pretending she doesn't.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll get him there, mom.」

Tyler Hawkins:「Yes.」
narrator:She looks relieved.
DIANE:「Thank you. Thank you.」
narrator:She kisses his cheek, and rises to go. He takes her to the door.
DIANE:「Why don't you bring that lovely girl to your birthday?」
Tyler Hawkins:「a warning) Diane...」

narrator:IN. BATHROOM. AFTER.
 63
Tyler Hawkins:「It's about Caroline's show. Are you planning on attending?」
narrator:CHARLES O/S What? There are people here. You'll have to speak up.
 Tyler holds the phone away from his face and screams at it, silently.
Tyler Hawkins:「Caroline's show.」
narrator:CHARLES O/S What about it?
Tyler Hawkins:「ready to kill him) You are coming, right?」
narrator:CHARLES O/S Fine. Yes. I'm coming. We'll go to dinner first. Alright?... (to Janine) Janine?
Tyler Hawkins:「Dinner? That's not...」

narrator:INT. RAILROAD FLAT-- LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT OF CAROLINE'S SHOW67
 Tyler wearing the suit we met him in, it's been dry-cleaned.
 Ally emerges from the bathroom, looking gorgeous in a vintage black cocktail dress and carrying a pink wrap.
ALLY:「You like?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Let's just skip dinner and I'll tell you how great you look in like eighteen different languages.」
ALLY:「You just want to skip dinner. I got you a tie.」
narrator:She hands him a simple blue tie that matches his eyes.
 Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「I was going to make a joke about how I'm not prepared for the commitment of exchanging accessories and how neck wear especially is a slippery slope, but I should probably shut up and say thank you. 71.」

narrator:INT. FOUR SEASONS RESTAURANT -- AFTER.
 68
 Tyler and Ally sip cocktails at the nicest table in the place. There's an empty seat. Tyler's eyes flicker towards the door. Twice. He touches his tie.
Tyler Hawkins:「Have you ever been here?」
narrator:Ally tries to lighten his mood.
ALLY:「joking) Yeah. Every Tuesday with my pop.」
narrator:This goes right past Tyler whose eyes flicker towards the door again.
Tyler Hawkins:「He's allowed to stand me up. But he's not allowed to stand you up. Or my sister.」
narrator:Tyler finishes his drink, signals a WAITER who glides to the table.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll have a whiskey.」
CHARLES:「Get me one too...」
narrator:Like a stealth bomber. At least this moment rescued the men from actually having to greet each other.
 WAITER Yes. For the lady?
ALLY:「I'm fine, thank you.」
narrator:The waiter goes.
Tyler Hawkins:「This is Alicia Craig. Ally, my father, Charles Roth.」

narrator:INT. RESTAURANT -- LATER
 69
 An empty wine bottle. Charles cuts into a one-hundred dollar steak.
CHARLES:「You're going to be a social worker?」
ALLY:「Yes. But with an area of focused responsibility. It's easier to find a job that way.」
CHARLES:「What will your area be?」
ALLY:「Criminal Justice.」
CHARLES:「Tough area.」
ALLY:「When I was little I wanted to play first base for the Mets. I don't think it's any harder than that.」
CHARLES:「The Mets, huh.」
ALLY:「arching an eyebrow) I'm from Rockaway.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Dad's a Yankee fan. It has something to do with the payroll.」
CHARLES:「It has to do with significant ball playing. You were a Yankees fan when you were little. You were Lou Piniella for Halloween.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Blind familial allegiance. I didn't know what overpriced, overfed, fat bastards they were. 73.」

CHARLES:「serious as a heart attack) Who's fat? What Yankee is fat? Tell me.」
Tyler Hawkins:「right back at him) It's a metaphor...」
narrator:Charles adjusts his tie and goes back to his steak.
Tyler Hawkins:「Roger Clemens.」

CHARLES:「Would you excuse me please... I'm so sorry.」
ALLY:「It's OK.」
narrator:Charles gets up from the table. Tyler, not able to help himself, shoots him a glance. Ally clocks it.
ALLY:「It's just a call. He held out 'til dessert.」
narrator:Charles returns.
CHARLES:「I'm sorry...And your mother?」
ALLY:「She passed away when I was eleven.」
CHARLES:「Ah.」
ALLY:「She was murdered. I was there.」
narrator:Charles and Tyler are stunned to silence.
ALLY:「to Tyler) I never told you that part.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Why are you saying this now?」

narrator:EXT. IN FRONT OF THE FOUR SEASONS-- LATER
 71
 Tyler and Ally wait in front of the restaurant as Charles takes another call. A TOWN CAR and DRIVER wait as well.
ALLY:「I think he's lovely.」
narrator:Tyler puts his head in his hands.
Tyler Hawkins:「God.」
narrator:Charles returns. His face blank.
Tyler Hawkins:「Don't say it.」
CHARLES:「I have to go to the office.」
Tyler Hawkins:「You have somewhere else to be, Dad.」
narrator:Charles adjusts his tie. Tyler loosens his.
 Ally is unsure where to look.
CHARLES:「The exhibit runs til nine. You guys take the car. I'll meet you.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I don't believe you.」
CHARLES:「That's all there is, Tyler.」
Tyler Hawkins:「It's not good enough.」

narrator:INT. CAROLINE'S ART EXHIBIT-- PRATT AUDITORIUM -- LATER
 72
 Amateur artwork and picked over catering. The rest of the exhibitors are high school age, even a college freshman or two. They mill with their friends and families. Animated.
 Ally and Aidan stand before a COLLECTION OF FAMILIAR PORTRAITS (Charles reading the paper at breakfast, Les and Diane kissing, Tyler on the park bench).
 Caroline sits on a catering table, Tyler next to her. She looks miserable, he looks furious. Diane bustles over with a plate of cupcakes and a big stupid grin.
DIANE:「I brought you every flavor.」
narrator:Caroline looks once at her mom then...
CAROLINE:「to Tyler) I'm ready to go home now.」
narrator:Tyler nods, takes her hand. Calls to...
Tyler Hawkins:「Ally...?」

narrator:INT. RAILROAD FLAT. RIGHT AFTER
 73
 Tyler, visibly agitated, is letting Ally in the front door to the apartment. He grabs his bike off the wall.
ALLY:「Where are you going?」
Tyler Hawkins:「I have something I've got to do.」

Tyler Hawkins:「Are you capable of taking care of yourself for an hour? Do you need me here every minute, or what?」

narrator:INT. CHARLES'OFFICE -- RIGHT AFTER
 74
 Charles in a meeting with several SUBORDINATES. Everyone is in late night disarray. They are obviously on their way to pulling an all-nighter. The door to the office flies open. Tyler barges in. Janine trailing.
JANINE:「Tyler? Tyler? You can't just...」
CHARLES:「It's fine Janine.」
narrator:There is space between the two men. Tyler extends a rolled up piece of paper to his father.
Tyler Hawkins:「She drew you a picture.」
CHARLES:「Put it on the table.」
narrator:Beat.
 Tyler holds on to the portrait.
Tyler Hawkins:「You have a daughter who sincerely believes you don't like her.」
CHARLES:「If I have any questions about what my daughter may believe, I'll let you know.」
narrator:Tyler gestures with the portrait
Tyler Hawkins:「Don't you at least want to know her? She's telling you something, Dad. She's communicating. Why aren't you riveted? Why isn't this the most important thing? At least for one night of your life? 78.」

CHARLES:「I've heard this song before, Tyler.」
narrator:SUBORDINATE#1 We can come back...
 The subordinates rise.
CHARLES:「It's fine, Khaleel.」
narrator:They sit.
 There is still distance between the two men.
 Beat.
CHARLES:「Who is this display for?」
Tyler Hawkins:「You, Mr. Roth.」
narrator:Beat.
CHARLES:「She knows I will take care of her.」
Tyler Hawkins:「And...?」
narrator:The subordinates rise again.
 SUBORDINATE#1 We really can come back another...
CHARLES:「Sit the fuck down.」
narrator:They sit.
CHARLES:「And that I love her. I love her. Good God, you toss that word around like currency. You have no idea what it means.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Maybe not. Maybe Caroline doesn't either. Where would she have learned it? 79.」

CHARLES:「I have provided her world. And yours.」
Tyler Hawkins:「That does not mean you're allowed to shatter it whenever there's something better to do.」
CHARLES:「Who the hell do you think you're talking to? You pedaled down here on your bike for Christ's sake. You have to take care of nothing. You are responsible for no one. You're a kid. You think you're the first one to lose anything? Do you think that there is anything you feel that I haven't already felt?」
Tyler Hawkins:「You didn't find him. I found him. And you're so tragically blind, the rest of your children are going to hang themselves on your watch.」

narrator:Everyone is a little sunburnt, the adults are a little drunk. Ally is wrapped up in Tyler, Caroline is on her mom's lap on the floor, Les next to them, lying on his stomach. Aidan is up and God only knows what he's doing
LES:「totally flabbergasted) I genuinely have no idea...are you having a seizure?」
CAROLINE:「Time.」
AIDAN:「Berlin Alexanderplatz!」
narrator:More raucous laughter.
AIDAN:「You people are culturally bankrupt.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Whose was that anyway?」

narrator:INT. AMTRACK -- PASSENGER CAR (MOVING) -- DAY
 79
 Tanned and rejuvenated, Ally, Tyler, and Aidan sit together on the train back to the city.
 Ally and Tyler kiss. Aidan watches them.
AIDAN:「I want a girlfriend.」
Tyler Hawkins:「What?」

AIDAN:「I've had all the races. I've been with girls from every...race.」
narrator:Ally laughs.
Tyler Hawkins:「That is the stupidest thing you've ever said, including that time with the bong in the emergency room.」

ALLY:「You slept with an Eskimo?」
Tyler Hawkins:「You went to the library?」
narrator:The car doors open and a MAN ushers his family through.
 It's Craig's partner Leo, in plain clothes.
AIDAN:「Inuit. In-u-it, Ally. Try not to show your ignorance.」
ALLY:「I don't believe you.」
AIDAN:「Fine. Nice girl. While we were doing it, I couldn't get this little, like, song out of my head...」
narrator:He begins to bob his head to a rhythm.
AIDAN:「Inuit, bum buh bum, I'm banging an Inuit, bum buh bum buh bum..."」
narrator:Ally and Tyler collapse in laughter as Craig's Partner passes He notices Ally immediately. She doesn't see him. He takes a long look at Tyler as he follows his wife and kids into the next car.
ALLY:「Prove it. Ten bucks.」
narrator:The train makes a stop at Patchogue. Leo and family disembark.
AIDAN:「You wanna go to the library?」
ALLY:「The minute we get off this train.」
AIDAN:「Fine.」
ALLY:「Tyler, are you coming?」

Tyler Hawkins:「I'll skip this particular bloodbath, thank you. 85.」

narrator:INT. TYLER'S APARTMENT BUILDING -- HALLWAY -- LATER
 80
 Tyler, his bag on his shoulder, returning home, fishing in his pocket for his keys.
 He sings the Inuit song to himself...
Tyler Hawkins:「bum buh bum bum buh bum buh bum...」
narrator:His front door is unlocked.
 Tyler freezes. Takes a beat. Scans the room, silently dropping his bag. He reaches behind him for the aluminium bat against the door. Wielding it, he takes two steps into the apartment.
 Craig, in plain clothes, sitting on Tyler's bed, amidst the carnage of Tyler's stuff. He has been rifling through everything. The guitar is propped haphazardly against the wall.
 Craig looks up. The men lock eyes.
 Craig's eyes go to the bat.
 Tyler leans it slowly against the wall.
 Beat.
CRAIG:「Where is she?」
Tyler Hawkins:「What are you doing in my house?」
narrator:Craig's eyes flash.
CRAIG:「Where's my daughter?」
Tyler Hawkins:「She's not here now. She's at the library.」
narrator:Craig's face says it: "Bullshit".
CRAIG:「Does she know?」
narrator:Cops never ask a question they don't know the answer to.

Tyler Hawkins:「No. 86.」

CRAIG:「I didn't think so. I figured you'd probably leave that up to me when you're done with her.」
narrator:Craig's face, like his wife's so many years ago, is pure contempt. With his body at this angle, Tyler can now see his gun.
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm not going anywhere.」
CRAIG:「That's true, Tyler Roth, son of Charles and Diane. Brother of Caroline and Michael, deceased, suicide by hanging. You're kinda lost, aren't you? Taking a little vacation in coach before finding your way back to first class?」
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm the one she came to when you used her face as a punching bag.」
narrator:Craig closes the distance.
 From Tyler's P.O.V he looks like a freight train.
 In a flash, he gets Tyler in a choke hold, flips him on his back on the bed and puts his hands around Tyler's throat.
 Silence, except for exertion.
 Tyler's hands are on Craig's wrists. He is holding Craig's eye. His face is starting to turn colors.
 Beat.
 Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「She needs you.」

narrator:INT. RAILROAD FLAT-- LATER.
 81
 Tyler smoking, standing at the window, waiting for Ally. He sees her walking up to the front door. He grinds his cigarette out. Ally is running up the stairs
 ALLY O/S Tyler Keats Roth!
 She arrives at the door.
ALLY:「He banged an Inuit! She's really nice. And smart. I don't get it.」
narrator:Beat.
ALLY:「What's going on?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Your dad was here.」
ALLY:「panicking) What?」
Tyler Hawkins:「When I got home. 88.」

narrator:Beat.
ALLY:「I hate him!」
narrator:She lunges for the phone. Tyler stops her hand.
Tyler Hawkins:「There's more.」
narrator:She looks like she's starting to panic.
Tyler Hawkins:「He knows me. Before I met you. He arrested me and Aidan. He gave me that gash over my eye.」
ALLY:「I don't understand.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I mouthed off to him. He ... responded. Then Aidan saw you guys together at school.」
narrator:She isn't quite getting it.
Tyler Hawkins:「Aidan suggested...I...introduced myself to you.」
narrator:She's got it.
 Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「Ally...」
ALLY:「I'm going to be sick.」
narrator:She bolts from the chair to the sink and dry heaves. Tyler reaches out to comfort her.
Tyler Hawkins:「Hey.」

Tyler Hawkins:「Don't do that. What are you doing?」
ALLY:「Do you realize what you've done?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Yeah.」
narrator:He doesn't.
ALLY:「Did you think I would never find out? I mean, think about it. I had to find out eventually. You set it up that way.」
Tyler Hawkins:「But it doesn't mean anything. I didn't mean to hurt you,」

Tyler Hawkins:「to Diane) She's asleep.」

narrator:EXT. FRONT STEPS -- LATER
 94
 Tyler alone on the top stair, taking long pulls from a cigarette. Ally comes out the front door, softly closes it behind her.
Tyler Hawkins:「Last one ever. I swear.」
ALLY:「I don't care.」
narrator:Beat.
Tyler Hawkins:「I know you're not here for me but, thank you for being here.」
narrator:A silent moment passes.
Tyler Hawkins:「For what it's worth, I think you're amazing.」
ALLY:「It's not worth much. You made everything between us a lie.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I'm sorry.」
ALLY:「Okay. Now what? I'm supposed to just forgive you?」
narrator:A BMW 7 Series speeds around the corner. Stops in front of the house. Charles gets out of the car, sees his son.
CHARLES:「How is she?」
Tyler Hawkins:「She's sleeping.」

narrator:INT. PRIVATE SCHOOL -- CLASSROOM -- MORNING
 96
 Caroline's TEACHER prepares her lesson plan. She starts to write the date on the board when The door opens. Caroline and Tyler enter. The entire class is watching. It's dead quiet.
 Caroline puts her trembling hands in her pockets.
 Tyler looks at a few of the girls. They look back, unconcerned, almost amused. Tyler walks his sister to her desk.
Tyler Hawkins:「to Caroline, whispering) You okay?」

narrator:INT. NYPD PRECINCT -- LATER
 100
 Charles standing in the waiting area. Tyler is led out by the bailiff rubbing his wrists. He sees his father, his face registering surprise.
 Beat.
 The men walk together towards the exit in silence. Neither looking at the other.
CHARLES:「Destruction of private property and felony trespassing.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I didn't call you.」

CHARLES:「I have unleashed a raging shitstorm of epic proportions on the board of trustees of that pissant school that will not abate until those girls seek enrollment elsewhere. I give them a week.」
narrator:Beat.
CHARLES:「I know you think I'm a prick, but I have my uses.」
narrator:Guess so.
CHARLES:「Can you come by the office to talk to the lawyers?」
narrator:Beat. Tyler deciding.
 Tyler nods.
 Charles appraises his son.
CHARLES:「Try not to vandalize any more schools in the meantime.」
narrator:Charles walks ahead, pulling out his cell phone.
 Tyler calls after him.
Tyler Hawkins:「Thank you for bailing me out.」

narrator:EXT. CENTRAL PARK -- ALICE STATUE -- JUST AFTER.
 103
 Tyler has convinced Ally to come uptown and meet Caroline with him.
 Tyler and Caroline climb all over the Alice, while Ally watches from a bench.
 As befitting a seventh grader, Caroline turns her face to the sun and arranges herself to take advantage of the early September tanning possibilities.
 Tyler walks over to Ally's bench, sits next to her.
 Beat.
ALLY:「Using the little sister is dirty pool.」
Tyler Hawkins:「carefully) Is it working?」

narrator:INT. TYLER'S BEDROOM -- THE NEXT MORNING
 104
 Bright sun pouring through the window. Ally lying asleep.
 Tyler is up and dressed now, he grabs his journal off his desk, kneels beside Ally. He is bathed in the pool of light streaming in.
Tyler Hawkins:「nuzzling) Hey...Hey. 100.」

ALLY:「Hmmm.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I'll be back in an hour. I have to stop by my dad's office.」
ALLY:「sleepily) Do you want french toast or pancakes for breakfast?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Whichever tastes better a la mode.」
narrator:Ally smiles.
ALLY:「Say hi to your dad for me.」
narrator:Tyler watches her lying there.
Tyler Hawkins:「If I said I love you... what would you say?」
ALLY:「laughing) I love you.」
Tyler Hawkins:「I love you too.」

narrator:EXT. SIDEWALK -- LATER
 107
 Tyler chaining up his bike. His cellphone rings. He checks it. Knows what it's regarding before he answers.
Tyler Hawkins:「Are you canceling all together or are you just running late?」

Tyler Hawkins:「I'm already here.」
CHARLES:「I'm taking Caroline to school.」
narrator:He looks at his daughter. She looks back at him, then looks out the window.
 Tyler considers.
Tyler Hawkins:「Take your time. I'll just wait in your office.」
CHARLES:「It may be a while.」
Tyler Hawkins:「That's okay.」

narrator:INT. EXECUTIVE FLOOR -- RECEPTION -- LATER
 111
 Tyler walks, approaches the Receptionist from the ashtray incident. He smiles pleasantly. She doesn't.
Tyler Hawkins:「Janine in?」
narrator:THE RECEPTIONIST (cold) She went for coffee.
Tyler Hawkins:「She getting me any? Just kidding.」

narrator:INT. CHARLES ROTH'S OFFICE -- LATER
 117
 Tyler is still watching the screen saver when Janine enters.
JANINE:「Good Morning, Mister Roth.」
Tyler Hawkins:「Did you know about this?」
narrator:Janine walks around the desk in time to see a photo of Tyler and Michael naked in the tub pop up. She smiles.
JANINE:「Who do you think scanned all the pictures?」
narrator:Tyler smiles. Janine smiles, Then a photo of Michael comes up. Those smiles fade. Silence.
JANINE:「How old would he be?」
Tyler Hawkins:「Twenty-nine last May.」
narrator:Tyler stands and looks out one of the floor-to-ceiling windows separated by columns. He stares out at mid town and a perfect blue sky. Janine looks befuddled.
JANINE:「It's really been that long? I could've sworn it was...」
Tyler Hawkins:「May 18, 1993.」
narrator:A silent moment passes. Janine reflecting.
JANINE:「I should be able to remember that. I'm sorry.」
narrator:Tyler looks at her, his face easy...
Tyler Hawkins:「It's okay.」
