narrator:EXT. PARADE GROUNDS ADJACENT TO THE WASHINGTON NAVY YARD, ANACOSTIA RIVER - NIGHT
 Rain and fog. Union Army companies are camped out across the grounds. Preparations are being made for the impending assault on the Confederate port of Wilmington, North Carolina.
 Two black soldiers stand before a bivouacked Negro unit: HAROLD GREEN, an infantryman in his late thirties, and IRA CLARK, a cavalryman in his early twenties. ABRAHAM LINCOLN sits on a bench facing Harold and Ira; his stovepipe hat is at his side.
HAROLD GREEN:「So at Jenkins' Ferry, we decided warn't taking no reb prisoners. And we didn't leave a one of `em alive. The ones of us that didn't die that day, we joined up with the 116th U.S. Colored, sir. From Camp Nelson Kentucky.」
Abraham Lincoln:「What's your name, soldier?」

IRA CLARK:「I'm Corporal Ira Clark, sir. Fifth Massachusetts Cavalry. We're waiting over there.」
narrator:He nods in the direction of his cavalry.
IRA CLARK:「We're leaving our horses behind, and shipping out with the 24th Infantry for the assault next week on Wilmington.」
Abraham Lincoln:「to Harold Green:) How long've you been a soldier?」
HAROLD GREEN:「Two year, sir.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Second Kansas Colored Infantry, they fought bravely at Jenkins' Ferry.」
narrator:HAROLD GREEN IRA CLARK That's right, sir. They killed a thousand rebel soldiers, sir. They were very brave. (hesitating, then) And making three dollars less each month than white soldiers.
 Harold Green is a little startled at Clark's bluntness.
HAROLD GREEN:「Us 2nd Kansas boys, whenever we fight now we -」
IRA CLARK:「Another three dollars subtracted from our pay for our uniforms.」
HAROLD GREEN:「That was true, yessir, but that CHANGED -」
IRA CLARK:「Equal pay now. Still no commissioned Negro officers.」
Abraham Lincoln:「I am aware of it, Corporal Clark. 3.」

IRA CLARK:「Yes, sir, that's good you're aware, sir. It's only that -」
HAROLD GREEN:「to Lincoln, trying to change the subject:) You think the Wilmington attack is gonna be -」
IRA CLARK:「Now that white people have accustomed themselves to seeing Negro men with guns, fighting on their behalf, and now that they can tolerate Negro soldiers getting the same pay - in a few years perhaps they can abide the idea of Negro lieutenants and captains. In fifty years, maybe a Negro colonel. In a hundred years - the vote.」
narrator:Green's offended at the way Clark is talking to Lincoln.
Abraham Lincoln:「What'll you do after the war, Corporal Clark?」
IRA CLARK:「Work, sir. Perhaps you'll hire me.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Perhaps I will.」
IRA CLARK:「But you should know, sir, that I get sick at the smell of bootblack and I can't cut hair.」
narrator:Lincoln smiles.
Abraham Lincoln:「I've yet to find a man could cut mine so it'd make any difference.」

Abraham Lincoln:「Yes, I do. My last barber hanged himself. And the one before that. Left me his scissors in his will.」

narrator:FIRST WHITE SOLDIER LINCOLN President Lincoln, sir? Evening, boys.
 SECOND WHITE SOLDIER Damn! Damn! We, we saw you, um. We were at, at -
FIRST WHITE SOLDIER:「We was at Gettysburg!」
narrator:HAROLD GREEN SECOND WHITE SOLDIER You boys fight at Gettysburg? DAMN I can't believe it's -
FIRST WHITE SOLDIER:「(to Green, with mild CONTEMPT) Naw, we didn't fight there. We just signed up last month. We saw him two years ago at the cemetery dedication.」
narrator:SECOND WHITE SOLDIER Yeah, we heard you speak! We... DAMN DAMN DAMN! Uh, hey, how tall are you anyway?!
FIRST WHITE SOLDIER:「Jeez, SHUT up!」
Abraham Lincoln:「Could you hear what I said?」

narrator:proposition that all men are created equal."
Abraham Lincoln:「That's good, thank you for -」
FIRST WHITE SOLDIER:「Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation or any nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. We are, we are, we are met on a great battlefield of that war."」
Abraham Lincoln:「Thank you, that's -」

narrator:SECOND WHITE SOLDIER A VOICE (O.C.) I know the last part. "It is, Company up! Move it out! uh, it is rather -"
 Soldiers all over the field rise up at the mustering of the troops. Names of regiments, brigades, divisions are called: all across the field, the men put out fires, put on knapsacks.
Abraham Lincoln:「to the two white SOLDIERS:) You fellas best find your company.」
FIRST WHITE SOLDIER:「SALUTING LINCOLN:) Thank you, sir. God bless you!」
Abraham Lincoln:「God bless you.」

narrator:EXT. A SHIP AT SEA - NIGHT
 A huge, dark, strange-looking steamship, part wood and part iron, turreted like a giant ironclad monitor, is plowing through the choppy black waters of an open sea.
 Lincoln is alone, in darkness, on the deck, which has no railing, open to the sea. The ship's tearing through rough water, but there's little pitching, wind or spray. The deck is dominated by the immense black gunnery turret.
Abraham Lincoln:「V.O.) It's nighttime. The ship's moved by some terrible power, at a terrific speed.」

Abraham Lincoln:「V.O.) Though it's imperceptible in the darkness, I have an intuition that we're headed towards a shore. No one else seems to be aboard the vessel. I'm alone.」

narrator:INT. MARY'S BOUDOIR, SECOND FLOOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT
 The room's cozy, attractive, cluttered, part dressmaker's workshop, part repository of Mary's endless purchases: clothing, fabrics, knicknacks, carpets. Books everywhere.
 Lincoln reclines on a French chair, too small for his lengthy frame. He's in shirtsleeves, vest unbuttoned and tie unknotted, shoeless. He has an open folio filled with documents on his lap.
 MARY LINCOLN sits opposite, in a nightgown, housecoat and night cap. She watches him in her vanity mirror.
 She looks frightened.
 TITLE: THE WHITE HOUSE
Abraham Lincoln:「I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space...were it not that I have bad dreams. I reckon it's the speed that's strange to me. I'm used to going a deliberate pace.」
narrator:Mary looks at him, stricken with alarm.
Abraham Lincoln:「I should spare you. I shouldn't tell you my dreams.」

Abraham Lincoln:「rapping lightly on his FOREHEAD:) How's the coconut?」
MARY:「Beyond description.」
narrator:She delicately touches her head.
MARY:「Almost two years, nothing mends. Another casualty of the war. Who wants to listen to a useless woman grouse about her carriage accident?」
Abraham Lincoln:「I do.」
MARY:「Stuff! You tell me dreams, that's all, I'm your soothsayer, that's all I am anymore, I'm not to be trusted with - Even if it wasn't a carriage accident, even if it was an attempted assassination -」
Abraham Lincoln:「It was most probably an -」
MARY:「It was an assassin. Whose intended target was you.」
Abraham Lincoln:「How's the plans for the big shindy progressing?」
MARY:「I don't want to talk about parties! You don't care about parties.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Not much but they're a necessary -」

narrator:invite demented radicals into my home?
 Lincoln closes his folio.
MARY:「You're going to try to get the amendment passed in the House of Representatives, before the term ends, before the Inauguration.」
Abraham Lincoln:「STANDING:) Don't spend too much money on the flubdubs.」

narrator:INT. HALLWAY, LEAVING MARY'S BOUDOIR - NIGHT
 Lincoln encounters ELIZABETH KECKLEY, a light-skinned black woman, 38, Mary's dressmaker and close friend, holding a dark- blue velvet bodice embroidered with jet beads.
Abraham Lincoln:「It's late, Mrs. Keckley.」
ELIZABETH KECKLEY:「holding out the bodice:) She needs this for the grand reception.」
narrator:Lincoln bends down to look at the intricate beading.
ELIZABETH KECKLEY:「It's slow work.」
narrator:He nods, smiles, straightens up.
Abraham Lincoln:「Good night.」

narrator:Lincoln kneels by Tad and looks down at the map, a topographical and strategic survey of the no-man's land between Union and Confederate forces at Petersburg. He scrutinizes the precisely drawn blue and grey lines.
 He lifts one of the glass plates and holds it to the firelight: it's a large photographic negative of a young black boy. There's a caption, in elegant cursive script: "Abner, age 12 - $500"
 And another: "Two young boys, 10 &amp; 14 - $700"
 Lincoln puts the plates back in the box and closes the lid. Carefully brushing the toy soldiers aside, he lies down beside Tad. He touches Tad's hair and kisses his forehead. Tad stirs as Lincoln gets on all fours; without really waking up, knowing the routine, Tad climbs onto his father's back. Tad holds on as his father stands, weary, and maybe a little surprised to find his growing son slightly heavier than he was the night before.
TAD:「FAST ASLEEP:) Papa...」
Abraham Lincoln:「Hmm?」
TAD:「Papa I wanna see Willie.」
Abraham Lincoln:「WHISPERING:) Me too, Taddie. But we can't.」
TAD:「Why not?」

Abraham Lincoln:「Willie's gone. Three years now. He's gone.」

narrator:Two soldiers fasten a flag to the halyards. Lincoln moves into place; as the crowd applauds, he takes a sheet of paper from inside his hat and glances at it. Then he looks up.
Abraham Lincoln:「The part assigned to me is to raise the flag, which, if there be no fault in the machinery, I will do, and when up, it will be for the people to keep it up.」
narrator:He puts the paper away. The audience waits, expecting more.
Abraham Lincoln:「That's my speech.」

narrator:EXT. A CARRIAGE, PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, WASHINGTON - MORNING
 In a four-door carriage, top down, Seward sits opposite Lincoln. Hay, next to Seward, organizes papers in a portfolio on his lap.
SEWARD:「Even if every Republican in the House votes yes - far from guaranteed, since when has our party unanimously supported anything? - but say all our fellow Republicans vote for it. We'd still be twenty votes short.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Only twenty. 13.」

SEWARD:「Only twenty!」
Abraham Lincoln:「We can find twenty votes.」
SEWARD:「Twenty House Democrats who'll vote to abolish slavery! In my opinion -」
Abraham Lincoln:「To which I always listen.」
SEWARD:「Or pretend to.」
Abraham Lincoln:「With all three of my ears.」
SEWARD:「We'll win the war soon - It's inevitable, isn't it?」
Abraham Lincoln:「Ain't won yit.」
SEWARD:「You'll begin your second term with semi-divine stature. Imagine the possibilities peace will bring! Why tarnish your invaluable luster with a battle in the House? It's a rats' nest in there, the same gang of talentless hicks and hacks that rejected the amendment ten months back. We'll lose.」
narrator:Lincoln smiles.
Abraham Lincoln:「I like our chances now.」

narrator:majority, but barely more than fifty percent -
Abraham Lincoln:「Fifty-six.」
SEWARD:「We need Democratic support. There's none to be had.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Since the House last voted on the amendment there's been an election. Sixty-four Democrats lost their House seats in November. That's sixty-four Democrats looking for work come March.」

narrator:SEWARD LINCOLN But we can't, um, buy the (to Hay:) vote for the amendment. It's Might as well let `em in. too important.
Abraham Lincoln:「I said nothing of buying anything. We need twenty votes was all I said. Start of my second term, plenty of positions to fill.」

Abraham Lincoln:「Mr. Jolly. Ma'am. This by the fire's Secretary of State Seward.」
narrator:Seward nods slightly as he lights a Cuban cigar.
Abraham Lincoln:「Jeff City.」
narrator:Lincoln looks at the Jollys. They are worried and a little awed.
Abraham Lincoln:「I heard tell once of a Jefferson City lawyer who had a parrot that'd wake him each morning crying out, "Today is the day the world shall end, as scripture has foretold." And one day the lawyer shot him for the sake of peace and quiet, I presume, thus fulfilling, for the bird at least, its prophecy!」

narrator:Lincoln smiles. The Jollys don't get it. Mr. Jolly looks back at Seward, who gestures for him to speak, then exhales a plume of smoke.
 MR. JOLLY (launching into his PREPARED SPEECH:) They's only one tollbooth in Jeff City, t' the southwest `n this man Heinz Sauermagen from Rolla been in illegal possession for near two yar, since your man General Schofield set him up there. But President Monroe give that tollgate to my granpap and Quincy Adams give my pap a letter saying it's our'n for keeps. Mrs. Jolly got the - (to his wife:) Show Mr. Lincoln the Quincy Adams letter.
 Mrs. Jolly opens the suitcase and begins to dig frantically for the letter.
Abraham Lincoln:「That's unnecessary, Mrs. Jolly. Just tell me what you want from me.」

narrator:want your, uh - Who's your representative?
Abraham Lincoln:「Jeff City? That's, uh, Congressman Burton?」
narrator:MRS. JOLLY "Beanpole" Burton, I mean, Josiah Burton, yes, sir!
Abraham Lincoln:「to Mrs. Jolly:) Republican. Undecided on the question of the amendment, I believe. Perhaps you could call on him and inform him of your enthusiasm.」

narrator:Seward takes the letter from Mrs. Jolly and hands it to Lincoln.
SEWARD:「to Lincoln, quietly:) The people! I begin to see why you're in such a great hurry to put it through.」
Abraham Lincoln:「to Mr. Jolly:) Would you let me study this letter, sir, about the tollbooth? Come back to me in the morning and we'll consider what the law says.」
narrator:Lincoln stands.
Abraham Lincoln:「And be sure to visit "Beanpole" and tell him that you support passage of the Amendment. As a military necessity.」
narrator:The Jollys nod, skeptical now.
 NICOLAY (to the Jollys:) Thank you.
 Nicolay escorts them out. Before he closes the door:
Abraham Lincoln:「Oh, Nicolay? When you have a moment.」

narrator:There is a sharp knock on the closed door, followed by two long ones.
Abraham Lincoln:「Pardon me, that's a distress signal, which I am bound by solemn oath to respond to.」
narrator:Lincoln opens the door. Tad enters, cross.
TAD:「Tom Pendel took away the glass camera plates of slaves Mr. Gardner sent over because Tom says mama says they're too distressing, but-」
Abraham Lincoln:「You had nightmares all night, mama's right to -」
TAD:「But I'll have worse nightmares if you don't let me look at the plates again!」
Abraham Lincoln:「Perhaps.」
SEWARD:「We can't afford a single defection from anyone in our party...not even a single Republican absent when they vote. You know who you've got to see.」
narrator:Nicolay enters. Lincoln turns to him.
Abraham Lincoln:「Send over to Blair House. Ask Preston Blair can I call on him around five o'clock.」

Abraham Lincoln:「If the Blairs tell `em to, no Republican will balk at voting for the amendment.」
narrator:The room is baronial. PRESTON BLAIR, patriarch of his wealthy and powerful family, 72 years old, sits facing his son, MONTGOMERY BLAIR, 50, whip-thin. A fire blazes in a massive fireplace behind Monty. Preston's handsome, elegant daughter, ELIZABETH BLAIR LEE, 45, sits across from Monty, next to Tad, who's wearing a Union infantryman's uniform, a real musket by his side.
 MONTGOMERY BLAIR No conservative Republican is what you mean -
PRESTON BLAIR:「All Republicans ought to be conservative, I founded this party - in my own goddamned home - to be a conservative antislavery party, not a hobbyhorse for goddamned radical abolitionists and -」
ELIZABETH BLAIR LEE:「Damp down the dyspepsia, daddy, you'll frighten the child.」
narrator:MONTGOMERY BLAIR (TO LINCOLN:) You need us to keep the conservative side of the party in the traces while you diddle the radicals and bundle up with Thaddeus Stevens's gang. You need our help.
Abraham Lincoln:「Yes, sir, I do.」

narrator:PRESTON BLAIR MONTGOMERY BLAIR He was pushed out to placate (to Tad:) the goddamn radical I agreed to resign. abolishonists!
ELIZABETH BLAIR LEE:「(a nod at Tad:) Oh Daddy, please!」
PRESTON BLAIR:「You don't mind, boy, do you?」
Abraham Lincoln:「He spends his days with soldiers.」

narrator:INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - MORNING
 The cabinet has assembled. Lincoln heads the table, Seward at his left and EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War, 51, barrel- shaped, long bearded, bespectacled, at his right. Next to him are Secretary of the Navy GIDEON WELLES, 63, luxurious white hair (it's a wig) and a flowing snowy beard; Postmaster General WILLIAM DENNISON, 50; Secretary of the Interior JOHN USHER, 49; Secretary of the Treasury WILLIAM FESSENDEN, 59; and Attorney General JAMES SPEED, 53.
 Nicolay and Hay are in chairs behind Lincoln, taking notes.
Abraham Lincoln:「TO STANTON:) Thunder forth, God of War!」
narrator:Stanton clears his throat. He's noticed the singed edge.
STANTON:「We'll commence our assault on Wilmington from the sea. (PEEVED:) Why is this burnt? Was the boy playing with it?」
Abraham Lincoln:「It got took by a breeze several nights back.」

SEWARD:「And the entire cabinet's waiting to hear what it portends.」
narrator:WELLES A bombardment. From the largest fleet the Navy has ever assembled.
Abraham Lincoln:「TO WELLES:) Old Neptune! Shake thy hoary locks!」
narrator:Welles stands.
 WELLES Fifty-eight ships are underway, of every tonnage and firing range.
 Welles gestures on the map to the positions of many ships.
STANTON:「We'll keep up a steady barrage. Our first target is Fort Fisher. It defends Wilmington Port.」
narrator:Stanton indicates the lines tracing artillery trajectories. These converge particularly heavily on Fort Fisher.
 JAMES SPEED A steady barrage?
STANTON:「A hundred shells a minute.」
narrator:There's a moment of shocked silence.
STANTON:「Till they surrender.」
narrator:WILLIAM FESSENDEN Dear God.
 WELLES Yes. Yes.
Abraham Lincoln:「Wilmington's their last open seaport. Therefore...」

SEWARD:「And the war... is done.」
narrator:The rest of the cabinet applauds, foot stomping, table slapping. Only John Usher doesn't join in.
 JOHN USHER Then why, if I may ask are we not concentrating the nation's attention on Wilmington? Why, instead, are we reading in the HERALD - (he smacks a newspaper on THE TABLE) - that the anti-slavery amendment is being precipitated onto the House floor for debate - because your eagerness, in what seems an unwarranted intrusion of the Executive into Legislative prerogatives, is compelling it to it's... to what's likely to be its premature demise? You signed the Emancipation Proclamation, you've done all that can be expected -
 JAMES SPEED The Emancipation Proclamation's merely a war measure. After the war the courts'll make a meal of it.
 JOHN USHER When Edward Bates was Attorney General, he felt confident in it enough to allow you to sign -
 JAMES SPEED (A SHRUG:) Different lawyers, different opinions. It frees slaves as a military exigent, not in any other -
Abraham Lincoln:「I don't recall Bates being any too certain about the legality of my Proclamation, just it wasn't downright criminal. Somewhere's in between. Back when I rode the legal circuit in Illinois I defended a woman from Metamora named Melissa Goings, 77 years old, they said she murdered her husband; he was 83. He was choking her; and, uh, she grabbed ahold of a stick of fire- 26.」

narrator:wood and fractured his skull, `n he died. In his will he wrote "I expect she has killed me. If I get over it, I will have revenge."
 This gets a laugh.
Abraham Lincoln:「No one was keen to see her convicted, he was that kind of husband. I asked the prosecuting attorney if I might have a short conference with my client. And she and I went into a room in the courthouse, but I alone emerged. The window in the room was found to be wide open. It was believed the old lady may have climbed out of it. I told the bailiff right before I left her in the room she asked me where she could get a good drink of water, and I told her Tennessee. Mrs. Goings was seen no more in Metamora. Enough justice had been done; they even forgave the bondsman her bail.」
narrator:JOHN USHER I'm afraid I don't -

Abraham Lincoln:「I decided that the Constitution gives me war powers, but no one knows just exactly what those powers are. Some say they don't exist. I don't know. I decided I needed them to exist to uphold my oath to protect the Constitution, which I decided meant that I could take the rebels' slaves from `em as property confiscated in war. That might recommend to suspicion that I agree with the rebs that their slaves are property in the first place. Of course I don't, never have, I'm glad to see any man free, and if calling a man property, or war contraband, does the trick... Why I caught at the opportunity. Now here's where it gets truly slippery. I use the law allowing for the seizure of property in a war knowing it applies only to the property of governments and 27.」

narrator:citizens of belligerent nations. But the South ain't a nation, that's why I can't negotiate with 'em. So if in fact the Negroes are property according to law, have I the right to take the rebels' property from `em, if I insist they're rebels only, and not citizens of a belligerent country? And slipperier still: I maintain it ain't our actual Southern states in rebellion, but only the rebels living in those states, the laws of which states remain in force. The laws of which states remain in force. That means, that since it's states' laws that determine whether Negroes can be sold as slaves, as property - the Federal government doesn't have a say in that, least not yet - (a glance at Seward, THEN:) - then Negroes in those states are slaves, hence property, hence my war powers allow me to confiscate `em as such. So I confiscated `em. But if I'm a respecter of states' laws, how then can I legally free `em with my Proclamation, as I done, unless I'm cancelling states' laws? I felt the war demanded it; my oath demanded it; I felt right with myself; and I hoped it was legal to do it, I'm hoping still.
 He looks around the table. Everyone's listening.
Abraham Lincoln:「Two years ago I proclaimed these people emancipated - "then, thenceforward and forever free." But let's say the courts decide I had no authority to do it. They might well decide that. Say there's no amendment abolishing slavery. Say it's after the war, and I can no longer use my war powers to just ignore the courts' decisions, like I sometimes felt I had to do. Might those people I freed be ordered back into slavery? That's why I'd like to get the Thirteenth Amendment through the House, and on 28.」

narrator:its way to ratification by the states, wrap the whole slavery thing up, forever and aye. As soon as I'm able. Now. End of this month. And I'd like you to stand behind me. Like my cabinet's most always done.
 A moment's silence, broken by a sharp laugh from Seward.
Abraham Lincoln:「As the preacher said, I could write shorter sermons but once I start I get too lazy to stop.」
narrator:JOHN USHER It seems to me, sir, you're describing precisely the sort of dictator the Democrats have been howling about.
 JAMES SPEED Dictators aren't susceptible to law.
 JOHN USHER Neither is he! He just said as much! Ignoring the courts? Twisting meanings? What reins him in from, from...
Abraham Lincoln:「Well, the people do that, I suppose. I signed the Emancipation Proclamation a year and half before my second election. I felt I was within my power to do it; however I also felt that I might be wrong about that; I knew the people would tell me. I gave `em a year and half to think about it. And they re- elected me. (BEAT) And come February the first, I intend to sign the Thirteenth Amendment.」

narrator:Lincoln enters the room with Seward.
Abraham Lincoln:「Well, Mr. Representative Ashley! Tell us the news from the Hill.」
narrator:Lincoln shakes his hand and warmly claps the discombobulated but flattered representative on the shoulder.
JAMES ASHLEY:「Well! Ah! News -」
Abraham Lincoln:「Why for instance is this thus, and what is the reason for this thusness?」
JAMES ASHLEY:「I...」
SEWARD:「James, we want you to bring the anti-slavery amendment to the floor for debate -」
narrator:JAMES ASHLEY SEWARD Excuse me. What? - immediately, and - You are the amendment's manager, are you not?
JAMES ASHLEY:「I am, of course - But - Immediately?」
SEWARD:「And we're counting on robust radical support, so tell Mr. Stevens we expect him to put his back into it, it's not going to be easy, but we trust -」

JAMES ASHLEY:「It's impossible. No, I am sorry, no, we can't organize anything immediately in the House. I have been canvassing the Democrats since the election, in case any of them softened after they got walloped. But they have stiffened if anything, Mr. Secretary. There aren't nearly enough votes -」
Abraham Lincoln:「We're whalers, Mr. Ashley! 30.」

JAMES ASHLEY:「Whalers? As in, um, whales?」
narrator:Lincoln moves in, standing very close to Ashley.
Abraham Lincoln:「We've been chasing this whale for a long time. We've finally placed a harpoon in the monster's back. It's in, James, it's in! We finish the deed now, we can't wait! Or with one flop of his tail he'll smash the boat and send us all to eternity!」

narrator:Secretary of War. They're coming in earnest to propose peace.
 Both men look into the fire. Preston moves closer.
PRESTON BLAIR:「I know this is unwelcome news for you. Now hear me: I went to Richmond to talk to traitors, to smile at and plead with traitors, because it'll be spring in two months, the roads'll be passable, the Spring slaughter commences. Four bloody Springs now! Think of my Frank, who you've taken to your heart, how you'll blame yourself if the war takes my son as it's taken multitudes of sons. Think of all the boys who'll die if you don't make peace. You must talk with these men!」
Abraham Lincoln:「I intend to, Preston. And in return, I must ask you -」
narrator:PRESTON BLAIR LINCOLN No, this is not horsetrading, - to support our push for this is life and - the amendment when it reaches THE -
 There's a knock on the door.
Abraham Lincoln:「Not now!」
narrator:Robert enters. Nicolay stands behind him, apologetic.
Abraham Lincoln:「Oh. Bob. I'm sorry. Welcome home.」

Abraham Lincoln:「dismissing Robert, UNINTENTIONALLY ABRUPT) Just give us a moment please, Robert. Thank you.」
narrator:He turns to Preston. Robert, stung, hesitates, then leaves the room, Nicolay shutting the door behind him.
PRESTON BLAIR:「I will procure your votes for you, as I promised. You've always kept your word to me. Those Southern men are coming. (taking Lincoln's hand) I beg you, in the name of Gentle CHRIST -
 LINCOLN Talk peace with these men. Preston, I understand...」
Abraham Lincoln:「SHARPLY) I understand, Preston.」

narrator:INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, WHITE HOUSE - EARLY EVENING
 Seward hands the last prospectus to Nicolay, who unfolds it, places it on top of the other prospectuses, and records details about Hawkins's appointment in a notebook. Seward smokes a cigar, Nicolay a pipe. Lincoln sits, feet up, examining a newspaper.
SEWARD:「And lastly, Democratic yes vote number six. Hawkins from Ohio.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Six.」
SEWARD:「Well, thus far. Plus Graylor's abstention. From tiny acorns and so on.」
Abraham Lincoln:「What'd Hawkins get? 47.」

JOHN NICOLAY:「STILL WRITING:) Postmaster of the Millersburg Post Office.」
Abraham Lincoln:「He's selling himself cheap, ain't he?」
SEWARD:「He wanted tax collector of the Western Reserve - a first-term congressman who couldn't manage re- election, I felt it unseemly and they bargained him down to Postmaster. (TO NICOLAY:) Scatter `em over several rounds of appointments, so no one notices. And burn this ledger, please, after you're done.」
narrator:Lincoln stands.
Abraham Lincoln:「TO NICOLAY:) Time for my public opinion bath. Might as well let `em in.」
narrator:Nicolay helps Lincoln trade his shawl for his overcoat in preparation to meet the public.
Abraham Lincoln:「Seven yeses with Mr. Ellis! Thirteen to go!」

Abraham Lincoln:「We'll hear `em out.」
SEWARD:「Oh, splendid! And next the Democrats will invite `em up to hearings on the Hill, and the newspapers - well, the newspapers - the newspapers will ask "why risk enraging the Confederacy over the issue of slavery when they're here to make peace?" We'll lose every Democrat we've got, more than likely conservative Republicans will join `em, and all our work, all our preparing the ground for the vote, laid waste, for naught.」
Abraham Lincoln:「The Blairs have promised support for the amendment if we listen to these people -」
SEWARD:「Oh, the Blairs promise, do they? You think they'll keep their promise once we have heard these delegates and refused them? Which we will have to do, since their proposal most certainly will be predicated on keeping their slaves!」
Abraham Lincoln:「What hope for any Democratic votes, Willum, if word gets out that I've refused a chance to end the war? You think word won't get out? In Washington?」
SEWARD:「It's either the amendment or this Confederate peace, you cannot have both.」
Abraham Lincoln:「If you can look into the seeds of time, And say which grain will grow and which will not, Speak then to me..."」

Abraham Lincoln:「Time is a great thickener of things, Willum.」
SEWARD:「Yes, I suppose it is - Actually I have no idea what you mean by that.」
narrator:Lincoln stands.
Abraham Lincoln:「Get me thirteen votes. (in a thick Kentucky ACCENT:) Them fellers from Richmond ain't here yit.」

narrator:Lincoln is being dressed in formal wear by his valet, WILLIAM SLADE, a light-skinned black man in his 40s. Robert, already in his morning suit, is standing by the door.
ROBERT:「The only reason they don't throw things and spit on me is `cause you're so popular. I can't concentrate on, on British mercantile law, I don't care about British mercantile law. I might not even want to be a lawyer -」
Abraham Lincoln:「It's a sturdy profession, and a useful one.」
ROBERT:「Yes, and I want to be useful, but now, not afterwards!」
narrator:Slade hands Lincoln his formal gloves.
Abraham Lincoln:「I ain't wearing them things, Mr. Slade, they never fit right.」
narrator:WILLIAM SLADE The missus will have you wear `em. Don't think about leaving `em.
ROBERT:「You're delaying, that's your favorite tactic.」
narrator:WILLIAM SLADE ROBERT (to Robert:) You won't tell me no, but the Be useful and stop war will be over in a month, distracting him. and you know it will!
Abraham Lincoln:「TO ROBERT:) I've found that prophesying is one of life's less prophet-able occupations!」

ROBERT:「If they're still young and healthy, if the women can still conceive, they'll pay more -」
Abraham Lincoln:「Put `em back in the box. We'll return them to Mr. Gardner's studio day after next. Be careful with `em, now. (tugging at his gloves:) These things should've stayed on the calf.」

JOHN HAY:「The reception line is already stretching out the door.」
narrator:Robert shoots an angry, envious glance at Hay's uniform as Lincoln, Slade, Mrs. Keckley and Hay leave. Robert calls to HIS FATHER:
ROBERT:「I'll be the only man over fifteen and under sixty-five in this whole place not in uniform.」
TAD:「I'm under fifteen and I have a uniform.」
narrator:Robert storms out.
 INT. THE PRINCE OF WALES BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
 Lincoln enters a dark room, its heavy drapes closed against the dim afternoon light. There are two beds. One is stripped bare. The other is canopied with a thick black veil.
 Mary, dressed in a deep purple gown with black flowers and beading, perfectly pitched between mourning and emergence, is seated at the head of the canopied bed. On a nightstand next to the bed there's a toy locomotive engine, a tattered book of B&amp;O railroad schedules.
 Mary holds a framed photograph: an image of WILLIE, 12, handsome, bright-eyed, confident.
 Lincoln crosses to the window.
MARY:「My head hurts so. (BEAT) I prayed for death the night Willie died. The headaches are how I know I didn't get my wish. How to endure the long afternoon and deep into the night.」
Abraham Lincoln:「I know.」

MARY:「Trying not to think about him. How will I manage?」
Abraham Lincoln:「Somehow you will. 54.」

MARY:「SAD SMILE:) Somehow. Somehow. Somehow... Every party, every... And now, four years more in this terrible house reproaching us. He was a very sick little boy. We should've cancelled that reception, shouldn't we?」
Abraham Lincoln:「We didn't know how sick he was.」
MARY:「I knew, I knew, I saw that night he was dying.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Three years ago, the war was going so badly, and we had to put on a face.」
MARY:「But I saw Willie was dying. I saw HIM -」
narrator:He bends and kisses her hand.
Abraham Lincoln:「Molly. It's too hard. Too hard.」

Abraham Lincoln:「Since we have the floor next in the debate, I thought I'd suggest you might...temper your contributions so as not to frighten our conservative friends?」
THADDEUS STEVENS:「Ashley insists you're ensuring approval by dispensing patronage to otherwise undeserving Democrats.」
Abraham Lincoln:「I can't ensure a single damn thing if you scare the whole House with talk of land appropriations and revolutionary tribunals and punitive thisses and thats -」
THADDEUS STEVENS:「When the war ends, I intend to push for full equality, the Negro vote and much more. Congress shall mandate the seizure of every foot of rebel land and every dollar of their property. We'll use their confiscated wealth to establish hundreds of thousands of free Negro farmers, and at their side soldiers armed to occupy and transform the heritage of traitors. We'll build up a land down there of free men and free women and free children and freedom. The nation needs to know that we have such plans.」
Abraham Lincoln:「That's the untempered version of reconstruction. It's not... It's not exactly what I intend, but we shall oppose one another in the course of time. Now we're working together, and I'm asking you -」
THADDEUS STEVENS:「For patience, I expect.」

Abraham Lincoln:「When the people disagree, bringing them together requires going slow till they're ready to make up - 59.」

THADDEUS STEVENS:「Ah, shit on the people and what they want and what they're ready for! I don't give a goddamn about the people and what they want! This is the face of someone who has fought long and hard for the good of the people without caring much for any of `em. And I look a lot worse without the wig. The people elected me! To represent them! To lead them! And I lead! You ought to try it!」
Abraham Lincoln:「I admire your zeal, Mr. Stevens, and I have tried to profit from the example of it. But if I'd listened to you, I'd've declared every slave free the minute the first shell struck Fort Sumter; then the border states would've gone over to the confederacy, the war would've been lost and the Union along with it, and instead of abolishing slavery, as we hope to do, in two weeks, we'd be watching helpless as infants as it spread from the American South into South America.」
narrator:Stevens glares at him, then smiles.

THADDEUS STEVENS:「Oh, how you have longed to say that to me. You claim you trust them - but you know what the people are. You know that the inner compass that should direct the soul toward justice has ossified in white men and women, north and south, unto utter uselessness through tolerating the evil of slavery. White people cannot bear the thought of sharing this country's infinite abundance with Negroes.」
narrator:Lincoln reaches over to Stevens and gives his shoulder a vigorous shake. Stevens endures this.
Abraham Lincoln:「A compass, I learnt when I was surveying, it'll - it'll point you True North from where you're standing, but it's got no advice 60.」

narrator:INT. MARY'S BOUDOIR, THE WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT
 Spectacles on, Lincoln unlaces Mary's corset.
Abraham Lincoln:「Robert's going to plead with us to let him enlist.」
narrator:He's unlaced enough; she unhooks the front and steps out of her corset and petticoats, turns to him in her plain thin chemise and drawers.
MARY:「Make time to talk to Robbie. You only have time for Tad.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Tad's young.」
MARY:「So's Robert. Too young for the army.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Plenty of boys younger than Robert signing up...」

STANTON:「The problem's their commander, Whiting. He engineered the fortress himself. The damned thing's his child; he'll defend it till his every last man is gone. He is not thinking rationally, he's -」
Abraham Lincoln:「O.C.) (hollering!) "Come on out, you old rat!"」
narrator:Everyone's startled, and confused. They all turn to Lincoln, who sits in Major Eckert's chair, wrapped in his shawl.
Abraham Lincoln:「That's what Ethan Allen called to the commander of Fort Ticonderoga in 1776. "Come on out, you old rat!" `Course there were only forty- odd redcoats at Ticonderoga. But, but there is one Ethan Allen story that I'm very partial to -」
STANTON:「No! No, you're, you're going to tell a story! I don't believe that I can bear to listen to another one of your stories right now!」
narrator:Stanton stalks out, shouting down the corridor as he goes:
STANTON:「I need the B&amp;O sideyard schedules for Alexandria! I asked for them this morning!」
narrator:Lincoln pays no attention to Stanton's fulminations and continues with his story.

Abraham Lincoln:「It was right after the Revolution, right after peace had been concluded, and Ethan Allen went to London to help our new country conduct its business with the king. The English sneered at how rough we are, and rude and simple-minded and on like that, everywhere he went, till one day he was invited to the townhouse of a great English lord. Dinner was served, beverages imbibed, time passed, as happens, and Mr. Allen found he needed the 63.」

narrator:privy. He was grateful to be directed thence - relieved you might say.
 Everyone laughs.
Abraham Lincoln:「Now, Mr. Allen discovered on entering the water closet that the only decoration therein was a portrait of George Washington. Ethan Allen done what he came to do and returned to the drawing room. His host and the others were disappointed when he didn't mention Washington's portrait. And finally His Lordship couldn't resist, and asked Mr. Allen had he noticed it, the picture of Washington. He had. Well, what did he think of its placement, did it seem appropriately located to Mr. Allen? Mr. Allen said it did. His host was astounded! Appropriate? George Washington's likeness in a water closet? Yes, said Mr. Allen, where it'll do good service: the whole world knows nothing'll make an Englishman shit quicker than the sight of George Washington.」
narrator:Everyone laughs.
Abraham Lincoln:「I love that story.」

narrator:INT. SEWARD MANSION, LAFAYETTE SQUARE, WASHINGTON - NIGHT
 Seward's in a fancy robe and slippers, reading a telegram.
SEWARD:「will have a bad influence. I will be sorry should it prove impossible for you to have an interview with them. I am awaiting your instructions. U.S. Grant, Lieutenant General Commanding Armies United States"」
narrator:Lincoln is in his coat, shawl over his shoulders, holding his hat.
Abraham Lincoln:「After four years of war and near 600,000 lives lost. He believes we can end this war now. My trust in him is marrow deep.」

narrator:INT. JOHN HAY AND JOHN NICOLAY'S BEDROOM - EVEN LATER
 The room is spare and neat. Nicolay and Hay are asleep in their beds.
 Lincoln is sitting at the foot of Hay's bed, spectacles on, reading a petition, the others in his lap, pencil in hand.
Abraham Lincoln:「Now, here's a sixteen year old boy. They're going to hang him...」
narrator:Hay startles awake, then settles. He's used to this.
Abraham Lincoln:「(he reads a little FURTHER:) He was with the 15th Indiana Calvary near Beaufort, seems he lamed his horse to avoid battle. I don't think even Stanton would 73.」

narrator:complain if I pardoned him? You think Stanton would complain?
 Nicolay stirs in the next bed.
JOHN HAY:「Ummm... I don't know, sir, I don't know who you're, uh... What time is it?」
Abraham Lincoln:「It's three forty in the morning.」
JOHN NICOLAY:「not waking up:) Don't... let him pardon any more deserters...」
narrator:Nicolay's asleep again.
JOHN HAY:「Mr. Stanton thinks you pardon too many. He's generally apoplectic on the subject -」
Abraham Lincoln:「He oughtn't to have done that, crippled his horse, that was cruel, but you don't just hang a sixteen year old boy for that -」
JOHN HAY:「Ask the horse what he thinks.」
Abraham Lincoln:「for cruelty. There'd be no sixteen year old boys left. (a beat, then:) Grant wants me to bring the secesh delegates to Washington.」
JOHN HAY:「So... There are secesh delegates?」
Abraham Lincoln:「scribbling a note, signing the petition:) He was afraid, that's all it was. I don't care to hang a boy for being frightened, either. What good would it do him?」

Abraham Lincoln:「War's nearly done. Ain't that so? What use one more corpse? Any more corpses?」

narrator:INT. HALLWAY, THE WHITE HOUSE - LATE NIGHT
 As before, Lincoln continues his slow and solitary walk.
Abraham Lincoln:「V.O.) Times like this, I'm best alone.」

narrator:INT. THE TELEGRAPH ROOM, WAR DEPARTMENT - PRE-DAWN
 Lincoln is seated at Eckert's desk, shawl wrapped around his shoulders, glasses on; he stares down into his hat, held between his knees. Homer Bates and Sam Beckwith are waiting for him.
 Lincoln draws a handwritten note from his hat and carefully unfolds it.
Abraham Lincoln:「Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant, City Point. I have read your words with interest."」
narrator:Sam Beckwith transcribes Lincoln's words into code on a pad with a pencil.
Abraham Lincoln:「"I ask that, regardless of any action I take in the matter of the visit of the Richmond commissioners, you maintain among your troops military preparedness for battle, as you have done until now."」

Abraham Lincoln:「"Have Captain Saunders convey the commissioners to me here in Washington." (ANOTHER PAUSE) "A. Lincoln." And the date.」
narrator:SAMUEL BECKWITH (WHILE WRITING:) Yes sir.
 Lincoln places the hat on the floor.
 SAMUEL BECKWITH Shall I transmit, sir?
Abraham Lincoln:「a beat, then:) You think we choose to be born?」
narrator:SAMUEL BECKWITH I don't suppose so.
Abraham Lincoln:「Are we fitted to the times we're born into?」
narrator:SAMUEL BECKWITH I don't know about myself. You may be, sir. Fitted.
Abraham Lincoln:「TO HOMER:) What do you reckon?」
narrator:HOMER BATES I'm an engineer. I reckon there's machinery but no one's done the fitting.
Abraham Lincoln:「You're an engineer, you must know Euclid's axioms and common notions.」
narrator:HOMER BATES I must've in school, but...
Abraham Lincoln:「I never had much of schooling, but I read Euclid, in an old book I borrowed. Little enough ever found its way in here - (touching his cranium) - but once learnt it stayed learnt. 76.」

narrator:Euclid's first common notion is this: "Things which are equal to the same thing are equal to each other."
 Homer doesn't get it; neither does Sam.
Abraham Lincoln:「That's a rule of mathematical reasoning. It's true because it works; has done and always will do. In his book, Euclid says this is "self-evident." (A BEAT) D'you see? There it is, even in that two-thousand year old book of mechanical law: it is a self- evident truth that things which are equal to the same thing are equal to each other. We begin with equality. That's the origin, isn't it? That balance, that's fairness, that's justice.」
narrator:He looks at his scribbled note, then at Sam and Homer.
Abraham Lincoln:「Read me the last sentence of my telegram.」
narrator:SAMUEL BECKWITH "Have Captain Saunders convey the commissioners to me here in Washington."
Abraham Lincoln:「A slight emendation, Sam, if you would.」
narrator:Beckwith writes as Lincoln dictates.
Abraham Lincoln:「"Have Captain Saunders convey the gentlemen aboard the River Queen as far as Hampton Roads, Virginia, and there wait until..." (BEAT) "...further advice from me. Do not proceed to Washington." 77.」

narrator:EXT. THE STREETS OF WASHINGTON - MORNING
 Lincoln and Robert are in the buggy driven by the old soldier; a young bodyguard soldier sits beside the driver, his rifle uselessly tucked under his legs. Lincoln is on one side reading over a stack of documents. Robert's on the other side of the buggy, staring sullenly at his feet.
 The buggy stops outside an army hospital. Lincoln packs up his papers.
ROBERT:「I'm not going in.」
Abraham Lincoln:「You said you wanted to help me.」
ROBERT:「This is - This is just a clumsy attempt at discouragement. I've been to army hospitals, I've seen surgeries, I went and visited the malaria barges with mama.」
Abraham Lincoln:「She told me she didn't take you inside.」
ROBERT:「I snuck in after - I've seen what it's like. This changes nothing.」
Abraham Lincoln:「At all rates, I'm happy to have your company.」

narrator:INT. ARMY HOSPITAL - MORNING
 He's met in the antechamber by an ARMY SURGEON.
Abraham Lincoln:「Morning, Jim. 82.」

narrator:ARMY SURGEON Hello, Mr. President.
Abraham Lincoln:「Good to see you again.」
narrator:They move into the main ward, Lincoln removing his hat.
Abraham Lincoln:「Well, boys, first question: You getting enough to eat?」
narrator:He walks from bed to bed, shaking hands with each patient. Most are amputees.
 FIRST PATIENT Hello, sir.
Abraham Lincoln:「What's your name, soldier?」
narrator:FIRST PATIENT Robert.
Abraham Lincoln:「Robert. Good to meet you, Robert.」
narrator:SECOND PATIENT Nice to meet you.
Abraham Lincoln:「What's your name?」
narrator:SECOND PATIENT Kevin.
Abraham Lincoln:「Tell me your names as I go past. I like to know who I'm talkin' to. Kevin.」
narrator:THIRD PATIENT Mr. President. John.
Abraham Lincoln:「John. I've seen you before.」

narrator:Hearing a creaking, rumbling sound, Robert turns to see TWO BLACK ORDERLIES in grey uniforms wrangling a large top-heavy wheelbarrow, covered with filthy canvas. One orderly pushes while the other keeps the barrow from tipping over.
 Robert notices, in the barrow's wake, a trail of blood. He gets out of the buggy and follows as the orderlies turn a corner of the building.
 Behind the building, where the ground is bare, pitted with puddles of water, Robert watches as the orderlies reach the edge of a shallow pit. One orderly pulls the canvas back, revealing severed legs, arms, hands, rotten, burnt, shattered by bullet or bomb.
 Robert watches as they toss the remains into the pit. Quicklime is shoveled atop the limbs.
 Robert walks away, unsteady.
 Around the corner, he fumbles through his pockets for rolling paper and tobacco. He locates these and tries to focus on rolling a cigarette, his hands shaking. He tries harder to control his hands, his feelings, but he can't. He has a panic attack, crying, hiccupy shallow breathing, face flushed. Frustrated, he throws down the cigarette and tries to hold back tears.
Abraham Lincoln:「O.C.) What's the matter, Bob?」
narrator:Robert looks up, mortified, to see Lincoln watching him with concern. He wipes his eyes, his mouth.

ROBERT:「I have to do this! And I will do it and I don't need your permission to enlist.」
Abraham Lincoln:「That same speech has been made by how many sons to how many fathers since the war began? "I don't need your damn permission, you miserable old goat, I'm gonna enlist anyhow!" And what wouldn't those numberless fathers have given to be able to say to their sons - as I now say to mine - "I'm commander-in-chief, so in point of fact, without my permission, you ain't enlisting in nothing, nowhere, young man." 84.」

ROBERT:「It's mama you're scared of, not me getting killed.」
narrator:Lincoln slaps Robert in the face. It shocks them both.
 Lincoln tries to embrace Robert, but Robert shoulders past him and walks back toward the front of he building. He turns.
ROBERT:「I have to do this! And I will! Or I will feel ashamed of myself for the rest of my life. Whether or not you fought is what's gonna matter. And not just to other people, but to myself. I won't be you, pa. I can't do that. But I don't want to be nothing.」
narrator:He hurries away.
Abraham Lincoln:「We can't lose you.」

narrator:INT. MARY'S BOUDOIR, SECOND FLOOR OF THE WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT
 Outside, driving rain and wind. Lincoln sits by the window, in his coat, vest and tie, hair combed neatly.
Abraham Lincoln:「He'll be fine, Molly. City Point's far from the front lines, from the fighting, he'll be an adjutant running messages for General Grant.」

Abraham Lincoln:「That's not true -」
MARY:「And if the slaughter of Cold Harbor is on your hands same as Grant, God help us! We'll pay for the oceans of spilled blood you've sanctioned, the uncountable corpses we'll be made to pay with our son's dear BLOOD -」
narrator:Lincoln rises from the window seat, angry.
Abraham Lincoln:「Just, just this once, Mrs. Lincoln, I demand of you to try and take the liberal and not the selfish point of view! You imagine Robert will forgive us if we continue to stifle his very natural ambition?!」

narrator:LINCOLN MARY And his mother won't let him I couldn't let Tad in! I near her, `cause she's couldn't risk him seeing how screaming from morning to angry I was! night pacing the corridors, howling at shadows and furniture and ghosts! I ought to have done it, I ought have done for Tad's sake, for everybody's goddamned sake, I should have clapped you in the madhouse!
MARY:「THEN DO IT! Do it! Don't you threaten me, you do it this time! Lock me away! You'll have to, I swear, if Robert is killed!」
narrator:Silence. Then:
Abraham Lincoln:「I couldn't tolerate you grieving so for Willie because I couldn't permit it in myself, though I wanted to, Mary. I wanted to crawl under the earth, into the vault with his coffin. I still do. Every day I do. Don't... talk to me about grief. (BEAT:) I must make my decisions, Bob must make his, you yours. And bear what we must, hold and carry what we must. What I carry within me - you must allow me to do it, alone as I must. And you alone, Mary, you alone may lighten this burden, or render it intolerable. As you choose.」

narrator:Mary turns to Lincoln. They speak in whispers. Mrs. Keckley tries not to listen but she can't help hearing what they say.
MARY:「You think I'm ignorant of what you're up to because you haven't discussed this scheme with me as you ought to have done. When have I ever been so easily bamboozled? (BEAT) I believe you when you insist that amending the constitution and abolishing slavery will end this war. And since you are sending my son into the war, woe unto you if you fail to pass the amendment.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Seward doesn't want me leaving big muddy footprints all over town.」

narrator:EXT. THE PORTICO OF THE WHITE HOUSE - A SHORT WHILE LATER
 The carriage has pulled up and Mary is entering the White House. Lincoln helps Mrs. Keckley down from the carriage.
 She hesitates before proceeding in. Then she faces Lincoln.
ELIZABETH KECKLEY:「I know the vote is only four days away; I know you're concerned. Thank you for your concern over this, and I want you to know: They'll approve it. God will see to it.」
Abraham Lincoln:「I don't envy him his task. He may wish He'd chosen an instrument for His purpose more wieldy than the House of Representatives.」

narrator:Lincoln looks at her, considering. Then:
Abraham Lincoln:「Are you afraid of what lies ahead? For your people? If we succeed?」
ELIZABETH KECKLEY:「White people don't want us here.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Many don't.」
ELIZABETH KECKLEY:「What about you?」
Abraham Lincoln:「I...I don't know you, Mrs. Keckley. Any of you. You're ...familiar to me, as all people are. Unaccommodated, poor, bare, forked creatures such as we all are. You have a right to expect what I expect, and likely our expectations are not incomprehensible to each other. I assume I'll get used to you. But what you are to the nation, what'll become of you once slavery's day is done, I don't know.」

ROBERT LATHAM:「Oh, it is? What you got goin'?」
narrator:There's a quick knock on the door.
 W.N. BILBO Yeah?
ROBERT LATHAM:「Go away! (TO BILBO) That watch fob, is that gold?」
narrator:W.N. BILBO You keep your eyes off my fob!
 Seward enters, displeased, as they show their cards, laughing.
ROBERT LATHAM:「Nines paired!」
narrator:W.N. BILBO Oh my God damn!
SEWARD:「Gentlemen. You have a visitor.」
narrator:Latham jovially collects his winnings. He stops short when Lincoln steps into the room, cloak and stovepipe, very tall.
 W.N. BILBO Well, I'll be fucked.
Abraham Lincoln:「I wouldn't bet against it, Mr...?」
narrator:Schell startles awake as Bilbo puts down his cigar and wipes his hand on his vest.
 W.N. BILBO W.N. Bilbo.
Abraham Lincoln:「Mr. Bilbo. Gentlemen.」

narrator:let us use fifty-cent pieces `cause they got your face on `em.
Abraham Lincoln:「The Secretary of State here tells me that, uh, you got eleven Democrats in the bag. That's encouraging.」
ROBERT LATHAM:「Oh, you've got no cause to be encouraged. Sir. Uh...」
RICHARD SCHELL:「Are we being...fired?」
narrator:Lincoln sits at the card table.
Abraham Lincoln:「We have heard the chimes of midnight, Master Shallow." I'm here to alert you boys that the great day of reckoning is nigh upon us.」
RICHARD SCHELL:「The Democrats we've yet to bag, sir. The patronage jobs simply won't bag `em. They require more...convincing, Mr. President.」
narrator:Lincoln nods. He turns to Bilbo.
Abraham Lincoln:「Mm-hmm. Do me a favor, willya?」
narrator:W.N. BILBO Sure.
Abraham Lincoln:「Snagged my eye in the paper this morning. Governor Curtin is set to declare a winner in the disputed Congressional election for the -」
narrator:W.N. BILBO Pennsylvania 16th District.

Abraham Lincoln:「What a joy to be comprehended. Hop on a train to Philadell, call on the Governor - 91.」

SEWARD:「looking askance at BILBO'S APPEARANCE:) Send Latham. Or Schell.」
Abraham Lincoln:「TO BILBO:) No, he'll do fine, just polish yourself up first.」
narrator:Bilbo, cigar back in mouth, laughs.
ROBERT LATHAM:「The incumbent is claiming he won it. Name of, uh...」
narrator:W.N. BILBO Coffroth.
Abraham Lincoln:「That's him.」

narrator:INT. A BEDROOM IN THE ST. CHARLES HOTEL - LATE NIGHT
 Continue with Lincoln and his operatives around the card table.
Abraham Lincoln:「Now give me the names of whoever else you been hunting.」
narrator:Schell, Latham and Bilbo exchange looks, then:
ROBERT LATHAM:「George Yeaman.」
RICHARD SCHELL:「Yes. Yeaman.」
narrator:W.N. BILBO Among others. But Yeaman: That'd count.
ROBERT LATHAM:「HELPFULLY) Y-E-A-M-A-N」
narrator:Lincoln looks up from his notepad, smiling.
Abraham Lincoln:「I got it. 95.」

narrator:INT. SEWARD'S OFFICE, STATE DEPARTMENT - DAY
 Seward sits at his grand desk, looking on with an anxious scowl. Lincoln sits on the edge of Seward's desk. Yeaman sits in a chair facing him.
GEORGE YEAMAN:「I can't vote for the amendment, Mr. Lincoln.」
Abraham Lincoln:「I saw a barge once, Mr. Yeaman, filled with colored men in chains, heading down the Mississippi to the New Orleans slave markets. It sickened me, `n more than that, it brought a shadow down, a pall around my eyes. (BEAT) Slavery troubled me, as long as I can remember, in a way it never troubled my father, though he hated it. In his own fashion. He knew no smallholding dirt farmer could compete with slave plantations. He took us out from Kentucky to get away from `em. He wanted Indiana kept free. He wasn't a kind man, but there was a rough moral urge for fairness, for freedom in him. I learnt that from him, I suppose, if little else from him. We didn't care for one another, Mr. Yeaman.」
GEORGE YEAMAN:「EMBARRASSED) I... Well, I'm sorry to hear that -」

Abraham Lincoln:「Lovingkindness, that most ordinary thing, came to me from other sources. I'm grateful for that.」

Abraham Lincoln:「LAUGHS) We're unready for peace too, ain't we? When it comes, it'll present us with conundrums and dangers greater than any we've faced during the war, bloody as it's been. We'll have to extemporize and experiment with what it is when it is.」
narrator:Lincoln moves from the desk to take the seat beside Yeaman, no longer towering over him. He leans forward and rests a hand on Yeaman's knee.
Abraham Lincoln:「I read your speech, George. Negroes and the vote, that's a puzzle.」
GEORGE YEAMAN:「No, no, but, but, but - But Negroes can't, um, vote, Mr. Lincoln. You're not suggesting that we enfranchise colored people.」
Abraham Lincoln:「I'm asking only that you disenthrall yourself from the slave powers. I'll let you know when there's an offer on my desk for surrender. There's none before us now. What's before us now, that's the vote on the Thirteenth Amendment. It's going to be so very close. You see what you can do.」

Abraham Lincoln:「I'd change that in you if I could, but that's not why I come. I might be wrong, Mr. Hutton, but I expect... Colored people will most likely be free, and when that's so, it's simple truth that your brother's bravery, and his death, helped make it so. Only you can decide whether that's sense enough for you, or not.」
narrator:Hutton walks slowly back to his house.
Abraham Lincoln:「My deepest sympathies to your family.」

JAMES ASHLEY:「MONTGOMERY BLAIR - and we'll be discredited, We don't need a goddamned the amendment itself will be abolition amendment! Leave tainted. What if, what if the Constitution alone! State these peace commissioners by state you can extirpate - appear today? Or worse, on the morning -」
Abraham Lincoln:「I can't listen to this anymore! I can't accomplish a goddamned thing of any human meaning or worth until we cure ourselves of slavery and end this pestilential war, and whether any of you or anyone else knows it, I know I need this! This amendment is that cure! We're stepped out upon the world's stage now, now, with the fate of human dignity in our hands! Blood's been spilt to afford us this moment!」
narrator:He points around the table at Ashley, Monty, Preston.
Abraham Lincoln:「Now now now! And you grousle and heckle and dodge about like pettifogging Tammany Hall hucksters! See what is before you! See the here and now! That's the hardest thing, the only thing that accounts! Abolishing slavery by constitutional provision settles the fate, for all coming time, not only of the millions now in bondage but of unborn millions to come. Two votes stand in its way, and these votes must be procured.」

SEWARD:「We need two yeses, three abstentions, or four yeses and one more abstention and the amendment will pass -」
Abraham Lincoln:「You got a night and a day and a night and several perfectly good hours! Now get the hell out of here and get `em!」

Abraham Lincoln:「Buzzards' guts, man.」
narrator:Lincoln rises, and keeps rising, till he seems eight feet tall.
Abraham Lincoln:「I am the President of the United States of America, clothed in immense power! You will procure me these votes.」

narrator:INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE, THE WHITE HOUSE - AFTERNOON
 Lincoln is at his desk, working, when Hay bursts in. Bilbo appears in the doorway, beet-red and gasping for air.
 Hay's too winded to speak. Bilbo holds out the note, limp with sweat, and brings it to Lincoln. Lincoln reads it.
Abraham Lincoln:「This is precisely what Mr. Wood wishes me to respond to? 103.」

narrator:Tad runs into the room, excited by the commotion. He wraps his arm around his father's neck, then tears wildly out of the room.
Abraham Lincoln:「Word for word? This is precisely the assurance that he demands of me?」
narrator:W.N. BILBO Yes sir.
 As Nicolay heaves into the room in last place, wheezing terribly, Lincoln deliberates for a moment, then writes a note. He blots, folds and hands it to Hay, who immediately reads it, Nicolay looking on.
Abraham Lincoln:「Give this to Mr. Ashley.」
narrator:Hay looks at Nicolay, who can't speak; he waves at Hay to speak for him.
JOHN HAY:「I feel, um, I have to say, Mr. Lincoln, that this - (annoyed, impatient, to BILBO:) Could you please just step outside?!」
narrator:W.N. BILBO You gonna have a chat now, with with the whole of the House of Representatives waiting on that?
 Nicolay continues gasping, trying to speak. He can't.
JOHN HAY:「TO LINCOLN:) Making false representation to Congress is, it's, um -」
JOHN NICOLAY:「It's, it's -」

Abraham Lincoln:「Impeachable. I've made no false representation.」

narrator:There is a delegation from Richmond.
Abraham Lincoln:「Give me the note, Johnnie.」
narrator:Hay gives Lincoln the note. Lincoln takes it, holding on to Hay's hand; with his free hand, Lincoln passes the note to Bilbo.
Abraham Lincoln:「(TO BILBO:) Please deliver that to Mr. Ashley.」

narrator:INT. THE SALOON ON BOARD THE RIVER QUEEN, HAMPTON ROADS, VIRGINIA - DAY
 Lincoln, Seward and the commissioners are seated. Seward looks concerned at Lincoln's fatigue.
ALEXANDER STEPHENS:「Let me be blunt. Will the southern states resume their former position in the Union speedily enough to enable us to block ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment?」
Abraham Lincoln:「I'd like peace immediately.」
ALEXANDER STEPHENS:「Yes, and...?」
Abraham Lincoln:「I'd like your states restored to their practical relations to the Union immediately.」

narrator:R.M.T. HUNTER This is the arrogant demand of a conqueror for a humiliating, ABJECT -
SEWARD:「You'll not be conquered people, Mr. Hunter. You will be citizens, returned to the laws and the guarantees of rights of the Constitution.」
ALEXANDER STEPHENS:「Which now extinguishes slavery. And with it our economy. All our laws will be determined by a Congress of vengeful Yankees, all our rights'll be subject to a Supreme Court benched by Black Republican radicals. All our traditions will be obliterated. We won't know ourselves anymore.」
Abraham Lincoln:「a nod, then:) We ain't here to discuss reconstruction, we have no legal basis for that discussion. But I don't want to deal falsely. The Northern states'll ratify, most of `em. As I figure, it remains for two of the Southern states to do the same, even after all are readmitted. And I been working on that.」
ALEXANDER STEPHENS:「Tennessee and Louisiana.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Arkansas too, most likely. It'll be ratified. Slavery, sir, it's done.」
narrator:Hunter storms out of the cabin.

Abraham Lincoln:「If we submit ourselves to law, Alex, even submit to losing freedoms - the freedom to oppress, for instance - we may discover other freedoms previously unknown to us. Had you kept faith with democratic process, as frustrating as that can be - 118.」

narrator:JOHN A. CAMPBELL Come sir, spare us at least these pieties. Did you defeat us with ballots?
ALEXANDER STEPHENS:「How've you held your Union together? Through democracy? How many hundreds of thousands have died during your administration? Your Union, sir, is bonded in cannonfire and death.」
Abraham Lincoln:「It may be you're right. But say all we done is show the world that democracy isn't chaos, that there is a great invisible strength in a people's union? Say we've shown that a people can endure awful sacrifice and yet cohere? Mightn't that save at least the idea of democracy, to aspire to? Eventually, to become worthy of? At all rates, whatever may be proven by blood and sacrifice must've been proved by now. Shall we stop this bleeding?」

narrator:EXT. THE THOMAS WALLACE HOUSE, GRANT'S TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS, ON MARKET STREET, PETERSBURG - MORNING
 Grant, smoking his cigar, his uniform dusty and rumpled, is sitting on the small porch. He stares piercingly at Lincoln, in a rocker next to him, watching his troops pass by as they move in to secure the conquered town. Lincoln closes his eyes.
 He has grown older, the skin around his eyes is cobwebbed with fine creases, and his hair's thinner, softer, suffused with grey. His brow has grown smoother.
Abraham Lincoln:「Once he surrenders, send his boys back to their homes, their farms, their shops.」
GRANT:「Yes sir, as we discussed.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Liberality all around. No punishment. I don't want that. And the leaders - Jeff and the rest of `em - if they escape, leave the country while my back's turned, that wouldn't upset me none. 120.」

narrator:When peace comes it mustn't just be hangings.
GRANT:「By outward appearance, you're ten years older than you were a year ago.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Some weariness has bit at my bones. (BEAT) I never seen the like of it before. What I seen today. Never seen the like of it before.」
GRANT:「You always knew that, what this was going to be. Intimate, and ugly. You must've needed to see it close when you decided to come down here.」
Abraham Lincoln:「We've made it possible for one another to do terrible things.」

narrator:EXT. A BUGGY RIDE THROUGH WASHINGTON - AFTERNOON
 A beautiful spring afternoon. Lincoln and Mary are riding in the buggy, driven by the old soldier.
MARY:「You've an itch to travel?」
Abraham Lincoln:「I'd like that. To the West by rail.」
MARY:「shaking her head no:) Overseas.」
Abraham Lincoln:「The Holy Land.」
MARY:「a laugh, then:) Awfully pious for a man who takes his wife out buggy-riding on Good Friday.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Jerusalem. Where David and Solomon walked. I dream of walking in that ancient city.」
narrator:She seems sadder. They ride in silence.
MARY:「All anyone will remember of me is I was crazy and I ruined your happiness.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Anyone thinks that doesn't understand, Molly.」

MARY:「When they look at you, at what it cost to live at the heart of this, they'll wonder at it. They'll wonder at you. They should. But they should also look at the wretched woman by your side, if they want to understand what this was truly like. For an ordinary person. For anyone other than you.」
narrator:Lincoln laughs, takes her hand. She leans against him.
Abraham Lincoln:「We must try to be happier. We must. Both of us. We've been so miserable for so long.」

narrator:INT. LINCOLN'S OFFICE - EVENING
 Lincoln's in the shirtsleeves and vest of his formal evening wear, his hair brushed down and plastered in place. William Slade is working the tie and gloves. James Ashley and Schuyler Colfax stand with him, holding glasses of scotch whiskey. Slade waits with Lincoln's coat, clothes brush, the stovepipe hat and gloves on the table.
 John Hay tears down several of the military maps, heavily marked, from the bookcases where they're tacked. He drops these on the floor. As they watch Hay:
Abraham Lincoln:「I did say some colored men, the intelligent, the educated, and veterans, I qualified it.」
JAMES ASHLEY:「Mr. Stevens is furious, he wants to know why you qualified it -」
SCHUYLER COLFAX:「No one heard the intelligent or the educated part. All they heard was the first time any president has ever made mention of Negro voting.」
Abraham Lincoln:「Still, I wish I'd mentioned it in a better speech.」

narrator:They laugh. There's a knock on the door; Nicolay enters.
JOHN NICOLAY:「TO LINCOLN:) Mrs. Lincoln's waiting in the carriage. She wants me to remind you of the hour, and that you'll have to pick up Miss Harris and Major Rathbone.」
narrator:Lincoln nods. Slade enters with Lincoln's hat, coat, and gloves. Lincoln begins to dress hurriedly.
Abraham Lincoln:「Am I in trouble?」
narrator:WILLIAM SLADE No, sir.
Abraham Lincoln:「Thank you, Mr. Slade.」
narrator:Slade hands Lincoln his gloves as Colfax and Ashley drain their drinks and rise.
Abraham Lincoln:「I suppose it's time to go, though I would rather stay.」

narrator:Robert, in uniform, red-eyed, pale as a ghost, sits at the bedside and stares at his father, barely breathing.
 Lincoln lies in a crooked diagonal, his knees bent, on a bed he's too tall to fit properly, clad only in a nightshirt.
 Barnes moves his head closer, then closer. The room is utterly still. Barnes takes out his watch, looks at the time, softly clears his throat.
 DR. BARNES It's 7:22 in the morning, Saturday the 15th of April. It's all over. The President is no more.
 No one talks, or moves.
 Stanton looks at Lincoln's body.
STANTON:「Now he belongs to the ages.」
narrator:Robert begins to weep.
Abraham Lincoln:「V.O.) Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away.」

narrator:EXT. THE EAST PORTICO OF THE CAPITOL - NOON
 Lincoln, wearing spectacles, stands at a podium before the Capitol Dome, still under scaffolding, under cloudy skies. He reads from the two pages.
Abraham Lincoln:「Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still it must be said "the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether."」

Abraham Lincoln:「With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.」
