narrator:The legs belonging to the sport shoes stretch out, and one of the shoes touches one of the brogues.
 MAN'S VOICE (over scene) Oh, excuse Me!
 CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to SHOW two young men seated in two parlor car chairs. BRUN0 ANTHONY, the wearer of the sport shoes, is about twenty-five. He wears his expensive clothes with the tweedy nonchalance of a young man who has always had the best. The wearer of the brogues is a fine looking but, at the moment, a somewhat troubled young man. This is GUY HAINES. He, too, is in his middle twenties and is well dressed because he can now afford to be. He nods politely, acknowledging Bruno's apology, then turns away with the gesture implying he wants privacy.
Bruno Antony:「smiling with sudden recognition) I beg your pardon, but aren't you Guy Haines.」

narrator:Guy nods with a polite half smile. Being a well known tournament tennis player, he has had this sort of experience before.
Bruno Antony:「snapping his finger) Sure! I saw you blast Faraday right off the court in South Orange last season. What a backhand! Made the semi-finals, didn't you?」
narrator:Guy acknowledges this with a modest nod and turns to his magazine rolled up in is fist.
Bruno Antony:「with open admiration) I certainly admire people who do things. (smiling and introducing himself) I'm Bruno Anthony. Bruno. See Guy looks up. Bruno indicates his gold tie pin which bears his name in cut- out letters. Guy looks at it with the faintest expression of disdain. I suppose you think it's corny. But my mother gave it to me so of course I wear it to please her.」

GUY:「patiently)(a faint smile) How do you do.」
Bruno Antony:「with an apologetic grin) I don't usually talk so much.
 Go Ahead and read.」
GUY:「wryly) Thanks. Guy tries to read but is uneasily aware of Bruno's open appraisal.」
Bruno Antony:「It must be pretty exciting to be so important.」
GUY:「fidgeting slightly) A tennis player isn't so important.」
Bruno Antony:「People who do things are important. I never seem to do anything.」
narrator:Not knowing how to answer this, Guy looks a little embarrassed.
Bruno Antony:「still insistent on being friendly) I suppose you're going to Southampton -- for the doubles.」
GUY:「politely) You are a tennis fan.」
narrator:Bruno is inordinately pleased by this small tribute.
Bruno Antony:「Wish I could see you play. But I've got to be back in Washington tomorrow. I live in Arlington, you know.」

Bruno Antony:「Cigarette?」
GUY:「Not now, thanks.
 I don't smoke much.」
Bruno Antony:「I smoke too much.」
narrator:He fumbles for a match.
 Guy brings out a lighter and hands it to Bruno.
Bruno Antony:「Thanks. (he stares at the lighter, impressed) Elegant.」

narrator:WIDER SHOT
 Guy reacts sharply.
GUY:「coldly) Yes?」
Bruno Antony:「Anne Burton. Sometimes I turn the sport page and look at the society news. And the pictures. She's very beautiful, Senator Burton's daughter.」
GUY:「You're quite a reader, Mr. Anthony.」
Bruno Antony:「Yes, I am. Ask me anything, from today's stock reports to Li'l Abner, and I got the answer. (MORE)」

Bruno Antony:「Even news about people I don't know. Like who'd like to marry whom when his wife gets her divorce.」
GUY:「sharply) Perhaps you read too much.」
Bruno Antony:「contritely) There I go again. Too friendly. I meet someone I' like and open my yap too wide. I'm sorry... At the appeal on Bruno's face, Guy slowly relents.」
GUY:「That's all right. Forget it.
 I guess I'm pretty jumpy.」
narrator:Bruno smiles with and signals a waiter.
Bruno Antony:「There's a new cure for that. (to waiter) Scotch and plain water. A pair. Double. (to Guy with a chuckle) Only kind of doubles I play.」
GUY:「You'll have to drink both of them.」
Bruno Antony:「grinning) And I can do it. (moving in) When's the wedding?」
GUY:「What?」
Bruno Antony:「The wedding. You and Anne Burton. (a gesture of explanation) It was in the papers.」

Bruno Antony:「I have a theory about that. I'd like to tell you about it some time. But right now I suppose divorce Is still the simplest operation.」
narrator:The waiter has brought the drinks. Bruno slips the lighter into hip pocket to free his hands for the bills which he gives to the waiter, waving away the change. He offers a glass to Guy. Guy takes it.
GUY:「as if he needs it) I guess I will. BRUNO (happily) This is wonderful -- having your company all the way to New York.
 forced to explain) As a matter of fact, I'm not going direct. I'm stopping off. At Metcalf.」
Bruno Antony:「Metcalf? What would anybody want to go there for?」
GUY:「It's my home town.」
Bruno Antony:「Oh, I get it! A little talk with your wife to about the divorce! I suppose she was the girl next door. Held her hand in high school and before you knew it -- hooked! (proud of his perspicacity) Am I right?」
GUY:「laconically) Close enough.」
Bruno Antony:「raises his glass) Well, here's luck, Guy. Drink up -- then we'll have some lunch sent to my compartment.」

GUY:「Thanks very much. But I think I'll go to the dining car. (he hails a waiter who is passing through with a food-laden tray) Do you know if there are any vacant seats in the dining car now?」
narrator:WAITER Not for about twenty minutes I'm afraid, Sir.
Bruno Antony:「pleased) See? You'll have to lunch with me. (motions the waiter back) Say, waiter, bring me some lamb chops and French fries and chocolate ice cream, Compartment D, Car 121. (turns to Guy) What'll you have, Guy?」
GUY:「Thanks just the same, but I really don't think --」
Bruno Antony:「Oh, go on and order.」
narrator:The waiter is hovering impatiently.
 Guy gives in out of embarrassment.
GUY:「Well, I'll Just have a hamburger and a cup of coffee.」
Bruno Antony:「delighted, lifts his glass in another toast) To the next Mrs. Haines.」

narrator:INT. BRUNO'S COMPARTMENT ON TRAIN (PROCESS)
 Bruno and Guy are finishing lunch. Bruno has been drinking and his eyes are bright and feverish. An almost empty liquor bottle is near a couple of detective novels covered with gaudily Illustrated dust jackets. Bruno has in unlighted cigarette in his mouth. Guy's lighter is on the table. Bruno snaps it a couple of times, as though fascinated, lights his cigarette and puts the lighter on the table again.
Bruno Antony:「Sure, I went to college. Three of them. Every time they kicked me out my father threw me back in. (bitterly) He finally gave up. He thinks I'm awfully small fry, not worth the bait. (wistfully) You my friend, Guy?」
GUY:「Sure.
 I'm your friend, Bruno.」
Bruno Antony:「a little woozy) No, you're not, nobody thinks I'm anything special. Only my mother. (empties the bottle into his glass) My father hates me.」
narrator:Guy smiles this off as nonsense.
GUY:「You must be imagining things.」

Bruno Antony:「hitting the bottom of the bottle for the last drop) And I hate him. He thinks
 I ought to catch the eight-five bus every morning, punch a timeclock and work my way up selling paint or something. Him -- with all his money!」
GUY:「amused by Bruno) Well, what do you want to do?」
Bruno Antony:「You mean before or after I kill him?」

GUY:「chuckling) Before, of course.」
Bruno Antony:「leaning forward eagerly) I want to do everything. I got a theory you're supposed to do everything before you die. Have you ever driven a car, blindfolded, at a hundred and fifty miles an hour?」
GUY:「Not lately. BRUNO I did. I flew in a jet plans too. (his hand traces a swift streak through the air, and he adds sound effects) Zzzzzzzp! Man, that's a thrill! Almost blow the sawdust out of my head. I'm going to make a reservation on the first rocket to the moon...
 amused and curious) What are you trying prove?」
Bruno Antony:「I'm not like you, Guy. You're lucky. You're smart. Marrying the boss's daughter is a nice short cut to a career, isn't it?」
GUY:「quickly) Marrying the senator's daughter has nothing to do with it. Can't a fellow look past a tennis not without being a goldbricker?」
Bruno Antony:「Take it easy, boy. I'm your friend, remember? I'd do anything for you.」

GUY:「(glancing at his watch) We'll be pulling in soon. I've got to change trains.」
Bruno Antony:「What'd you say her name was -- your wife's?」
GUY:「Miriam.」
Bruno Antony:「That's it. Miriam Joyce Haines. Played around a lot, I suppose? GUY Let's not talk about it any more.
 almost hopefully) Maybe she'll make more trouble for you.」
GUY:「I don't think so.」
Bruno Antony:「You mean you got enough on her to get your divorce no matter what?」
GUY:「Let's change subject, Bruno, can't we?」
Bruno Antony:「Okay, Guy. Want me to tell you one of my ideas for murdering my father?」
GUY:「indicating the detective novels) You've been reading too many of these.」
Bruno Antony:「going right on) You want to hear about the busted light socket in the bathroom, or the carbon monoxide in the garage?」

Bruno Antony:「But not against the law of nature. My theory is that everybody is a potential murderer. Didn't you ever want to kill somebody? Say one of those useless fellows Miriam was running around with?」
GUY:「You can't go around killing people just because you think they're useless.」
Bruno Antony:「Oh, what's a life or two? Some people are bitter off dead, Guy. Take your -- wife and my father, for instance. It reminds me of a wonderful idea had once. I used to put myself to sleep at night -- figuring it out. Now, let's say you want to get rid of your wife.」
GUY:「Why?」
Bruno Antony:「Let's say she refuses to give you a divorce -- (raises a finger and stops Guy's protest) Let's say. You'd be afraid to kill her because you'd get caught. And what would trip you up? Motive. Now here's the plan...」
GUY:「I'm afraid I haven't time to listen.」

Bruno Antony:「ignoring the remark) It's so simple, too. A couple of fellows meet accidentally, like you and me. No connection between them at all. Never saw each other before. Each of them has somebody he'd like to get rid of, but he can't murder the person he wants to get rid of. He'll get caught. So they swap murders.」

Bruno Antony:「Each fellow does the other fellow's murder. Then there is nothing to connect them. The one who had the motive isn't there. Each fellow murders a total stranger. Like you do my murder and I do yours.」
GUY:「with relief) We're coming into my station.」
Bruno Antony:「For example, your wife, my father. Criss-cross. GUY (sharply) What?
 with a smile) We do talk the same language -- don't we, Guy?」
GUY:「preparing to leave) Sure, we talk the same language. Thanks for the lunch.」
Bruno Antony:「beaming) I'm glad you enjoyed it. I thought the lamb chops were a little overdone myself.」
narrator:He holds out his hand.
 Guy is in a hurry but he shakes hands.
GUY:「Nice meeting you, Bruno.」
Bruno Antony:「detaining him at the door) You think my theory is okay, Guy? You like it?」

narrator:Left alone, Bruno picks up Guy's lighter from the table, starts to call Guy back to hand It to him.Then he looks closer at the insignia of crossed tennis rackets.
Bruno Antony:「smiling) Criss-cross.」

narrator:INT. ANTHONY LIVING ROOM
 The scene opens on a CLOSEUP OF A MAN'S HANDS. One of them is semi-flexed and turning slowly, The other is receiving the final touches of a manicure.
 CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal that these are Bruno's hands, and that, he is studying them moodily, CAMERA PULLS BACK FARTHER to reveal his mother, MRS. ANTHONY, sitting opposite him at a little table in the Anthony living room. She is working with scissors, file and nail buffer. Mrs. Anthony is a gentle, once pretty woman, whose pastel exterior harbors a tigress-like determination to protect her son, Bruno is in his robe and is unshaven. There is evidence of long established wealth in the heavy dark appointments of this room.
 MRS. ANTHONY Since you insisted on a manicure, dear, I do wish you'd keep your hands quiet. You're so restless lately.
Bruno Antony:「almost dreamily as he admires the free hand) I like them to look just right.」
narrator:Mrs. Anthony looks up, notices his moody expression.
 MRS. ANTHONY Did I file them too short?
Bruno Antony:「No, Ma.
 They look fine.
 Thanks.」
narrator:MRS. ANTHONY Then what's the matter?

Bruno Antony:「I'm all right, Ma.
 Don't worry about me.」
narrator:MRS. ANTHONY You look so Pale, dear. Are you out of vitamins?
Bruno Antony:「I bought a bottle of them yesterday. A whole fifth.」

narrator:MRS. ANTHONY (anxiously) But you have that 'look'. I can always tell. You haven't got into any more mischief, Bruno?
 He denies this with a slow, solemn shake of his head.
 MRS. ANTHONY I do hope you've forgotten about that silly little plan of yours?
Bruno Antony:「sharply) Which one? MRS. ANTHONY (smiling) About blowing up the White House?
 his eyes dancing) I was only kidding, Ma. Besides, what would the president say?」
narrator:MRS. ANTHONY (laughing gaily) You're a naughty boy, Bruno. But you can always make me laugh. (she rises) Now get shaved, dear, before your father gets home.
 Bruno's fist crashes down on the little table, upsetting it, as he gets to his feet.
Bruno Antony:「I'm sick and tired of bowing and scraping to the king.」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 Bruno's roar of laughter puzzles Mrs. Anthony, but she is pleased to hear his good humor. He puts an arm around her.
Bruno Antony:「You're wonderful, Ma! It's the old boy, all right. That's father! MRS. ANTHONY (bewildered) It is? I was trying to paint Saint Francis.」

narrator:INT. HALL CLOSE SHOT BRUNO
 as he approaches the telephone.
Bruno Antony:「calls back to his father) Sorry father. Long distance. (he picks up the telephone) Hello...」
narrator:CAMERA MOVES IN TO A BIG HEAD CLOSEUP OF BRUNO at the telephone as the Voices of his mother and father can be heard from the other room. MR. ANTHONY'S VOICE Now it's hit and run driving! And you knew about it all the time!
Bruno Antony:「eagerly into phone) Guy? (pause) Bruno, Bruno Anthony.」
narrator:MR. ANTHONY'S VOICE You're going to protect him once too often. After all we do have a responsibility to society.
 Bruno gives a look in his father's direction, before he speaks into the telephone in a low voice.
Bruno Antony:「I just wanted to ask how you made out with Miriam.」

narrator:CLOSEUP BRUNO
Bruno Antony:「sotto voce) Bruno, Guy. Bruno Anthony. Don't you remember? On the train.」
narrator:The voices of Mr. and Mrs. Anthony can still be heard in dispute as Bruno listens at phone:
 MRS. ANTHONY I never permit it!
 Bruno gives a significant look in direction of the living room as he speaks into the phone. BRUNO (softly) Are you getting your divorce?
 MR. ANTHONY'S VOICE I tell you he should be sent somewhere for treatment before it's too late.
Bruno Antony:「into phone, with satisfaction) So she double-crossed you!
 Are you going to see her again?」

narrator:LONG SHOT ISLAND
 We see the amusement park lighted beyond the lake. Silhouetted in the foreground, the trees and foliage of the island. Nearby we see the silhouetted figures of Miriam and her companions move across the scene, right to left. Miriam is pushing George away from her.
MIRIAM:「protesting perfunctorily) George, no!」
narrator:She backs away from him and the boys go on picture. Miriam goes in another direction, around, the bushes. George obviously misses her, for we hear his voice call out:
 GEORGE'S VOICE Miriam!
 Miriam backs out of the bushes
 until the back of her head is in CLOSEUP in the foreground of
 the shot. Suddenly she hears steps in back of her and turns
 her head toward CAMERA. Her face changes as she recognizes
 someone offscene.
MIRIAM:「Oh!」
narrator:She gives a coy smile of recognition. CAMERA
 PULLS BACK to reveal the mad and shoulders of Bruno between Miriam and the camera. His hand holds Guy's lighter which he
 flicks on as he raises it above Miriam's face. 0f Bruno, we see only the back of his head and shoulders.
Bruno Antony:「Is your name Miriam?」

TWO SHOT:「Guy frowning in puzzlement as he looks at Bruno.」
Bruno Antony:「cheerfully) Hello, Guy.」
GUY:「recognizes Bruno -- not pleased) What are you doing here?
 At this time of night?」
Bruno Antony:「a little sadly) You don't seem very pleased to see me, Guy.」
narrator:Guy stands without answering.
Bruno Antony:「pleased again) I brought you a little present.」

narrator:TWO SHOT
 As Guy takes the glasses he looks at Bruno in bewilderment.
GUY:「What's this all about?」
Bruno Antony:「Recognize them?」

narrator:CLOSEUP GUY
 He looks down at the glasses, mystified.
 He looks up again to Bruno.
 CLOSEUP BRUNO
Bruno Antony:「It was very quick, Guy. She wasn't hurt in any way. It was all over in no time.」

narrator:TWO SHOT
 Guy can hardly believe what he is hearing.
Bruno Antony:「I was very careful. Even when I dropped your lighter there, I went right back to it up. If It'd been found, it would have ruined our whole scheme, wouldn't it?」

Bruno Antony:「looks at Guy with astonishment) But, Guy, you wanted it! We planned it on the train together, remember?」
narrator:Guy suddenly starts to go.
 Bruno grabs his arm.
Bruno Antony:「Where are you going?」
GUY:「Where do you think I'm going? I'm going to call the police, of course. BRUNO But you can't, Guy. We'd both be arrested for murder.」
narrator:Guy turns back slowly and faces him.
GUY:「We'd both be arrested for murder?」
Bruno Antony:「You're is much in it as I am. We planned it together. Criss-cross. I do your murder --」
GUY:「suddenly angry) You crazy fool! You think you can get away with that?」
Bruno Antony:「a little hurt) Oh, come now, Guy. Why should I go to Metcalf and kill a total stranger, unless it was part of the plan and you were in on it? You're the one that benefits, Guy. You're a free man. I didn't even know the girl.」

Bruno Antony:「concerned) If you go to the police now, you'll just be turning yourself in as in accessory. You see, you have the motive.」

LONG SHOT:「FROM THEIR VIEWPOINT)」
narrator:We hear the sound of a telephone ringing in Guy's apartment. The top of one of his windows is open. BRUNO What is it?
GUY:「My telephone.」
Bruno Antony:「amused) Someone has some news for you, Guy.」

narrator:TWO SHOT
 Guy is still flattened against the wall to keep out of light.
Bruno Antony:「Tell them you know about it already, Guy.」

narrator:CLOSEUP GUY
 He looks across at the police, then down at himself with some surprise and disgust, then over at Bruno, suddenly conscious he is behaving like a criminal and that Bruno is responsible for his predicament.
GUY:「muttering) You've got me acting, like a criminal, you crazy fool!」
narrator:Bruno for a moment looks menacingly at Guy.
Bruno Antony:「Don't you call me that.」

narrator:TWO SHOT
Bruno Antony:「You must be tired, Guy. I know I am. I've sure had a strenuous evening.」
narrator:Guy looks at him, almost numb.
Bruno Antony:「Now look, Guy, about my father. I have the plans made. Two plans. A plan of the grounds and a plan of the house. I have in old Luger I bought at a pawn shop in San Francisco. My father --」

Bruno Antony:「Wait a minute, Guy. To have to talk. We have to arrange things.」
narrator:Guy turns at the door to his apartment building.
GUY:「furiously) Get away before I give you what you gave Miriam.」
Bruno Antony:「sadly) You're not yourself, Guy. You're tired. When you think things over, you'll see I'm right. Tomorrow --」
narrator:Guy opens his door, turns on Bruno.
GUY:「with finality) I don't know you. I never saw you before. I never want to see you again.」
narrator:He goes in and slams the door in Bruno's face.
Bruno Antony:「to the closed door) But we have to --」

GUY:「No Hennessy.」
ANNE:「suddenly serious) How long can it go on?」
GUY:「I don't know. I suppose until they find out who did it.」
ANNE:「We'll be happier then, won't we?」
GUY:「I suppose so.」
narrator:Anne looks it him, surprised at his lack of enthusiasm. They walk on out of the picture.
 A figure steps out from behind a pillar in the main hall of the gallery, near the spot from which they have disappeared. It is Bruno. He calls.
Bruno Antony:「softly) Guy!」

GUY:「muttering harshly) Will you stop pestering me!」
Bruno Antony:「But Guy, you haven't called me. My father's leaving for Florida the end of this week --」
GUY:「interrupts) You crazy fool! There's a detective outside. He'll see us together!」
Bruno Antony:「brushing this off) Oh, they can't have anything on you. (looking past Guy) Isn't that Anne Burton? Slight improvement over Miriam -- eh, Guy?」

narrator:MEDIUM SHOT
 Bruno half rises, smiles affably at Guy, reaches out his hand. Guy is forced to shake hands with him
Bruno Antony:「I've been a fan of yours for a long time, Mr. Haines. In fact, I follow everything you do.」

narrator:MED. SHOT Bruno comes up to Anne and the Senator. He gives a slight bow to the Senator; then puts his hand out to Anne.
Bruno Antony:「Good evening, Miss Burton.」
narrator:The Senator looks inquiringly.
 Anne makes the introduction.
ANNE:「This is Mr. Antony, father.」
SENATOR:「How do you do, sir.」
Bruno Antony:「I'd like to talk to you sometime, Senator, about my idea of harnessing the life force. It will make atomic power look like the horse and buggy. (the Senator and Anne are beginning to look at him in amazement) I'm already developing my faculty for seeing millions of miles. And, Senator, can you imagine being able to smell a flower on the planet of Mars? I'd like to lunch with you some day soon and tell you more about it.」

narrator:CLOSE SHOT BRUNO AND GROUP
 Bruno talking to an elderly, dignified gentlemen.
Bruno Antony:「But tell me, Judge, after you've sentenced a man to the chair, isn't it difficult to go and eat your dinner after that?」
narrator:JUDGE Young man, when a murderer is caught, he must be tried. When he is convicted, he must be sentenced. When he is sentenced to death, he must be executed.
Bruno Antony:「Quite impersonal, isn't it, sir?」
narrator:JUDGE So it is. Besides, it doesn't happen every day.
 At this moment, Anne comes into the scene.
 She hesitates as she hears Bruno's answer.
Bruno Antony:「So few murderers are caught.」
narrator:The Judge moves out of the way. Bruno smiles blandly at the ladies. One of them speaks to him.
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM Well, Mr. Antony, you seem very interested in the subject of murder.
 Anne looks more troubled, then moves on out of the scene.
Bruno Antony:「No more than anyone else.
 No more than you, for instance.」

Bruno Antony:「his tone is teasing) Oh, come now, everyone's interested in that. Everyone would like to put someone out of the way. Now surely, Madame, you're not going to tell me that there hasn't been a time when you wanted to dispose of someone. Your husband, for instance.」
narrator:MRS. CUNNINGHAM (laughs) Good heavens, no!
Bruno Antony:「playfully) Ah ah! (shaking a finger
 at her) Are you sure? Do you mean to tell me there wasn't a tiny moment - when you'd been made really angry? And what did you say?」
narrator:MRS. CUNNINGHAM (squirms, giggling) Well...
Bruno Antony:「There you are, you see! There you are! All right, now you're going -- to do a murder. How are you going to do it? This is the fascinating part -- how are you going to do it...I didn't get your name?」
narrator:MRS. CUNNINGHAM Mrs. Cunningham.
Bruno Antony:「Mrs. Cunningham, how are you going to do it?」
narrator:MRS. CUNNINGHAM (entering into the spirit of the play) Well, I suppose I'll have to get a gun from somewhere.

Bruno Antony:「shakes his head) Tssk, tssk. Oh no, Mrs. Cunningham. (MORE)」

Bruno Antony:「Bang, bang, all over the place. Blood everywhere?」
narrator:The other woman joins in:
 MRS. ANDERSON What about a little poison?
Bruno Antony:「Ah! That's better, that's better. Mrs.....?」
narrator:MRS. ANDERSON Anderson. BRUNO (he is thoroughly enjoying himself) That's better, Mrs. Anderson. But Mrs. Cunningham is in a dreadful hurry. Poison could take...let's see...ten to twelve weeks, if poor Mr. Cunningham is to die from natural causes.
 MRS. CUNNINGHAM I have a wonderful Idea! I can take him out in the car and when I get to a lonely spot, knock him on the head with a hammer, pour gasoline over him and over the car and start the whole thing ablaze.
Bruno Antony:「looks at her deprecatingly) And then have to walk all that way home?」
narrator:Mrs. Anderson laughs.
Bruno Antony:「No, I have the best way, and the best tools. (he holds out his hands and shows them) Simple, silent, and quick. The silent part being the most important. Let me show you what I mean. (MORE)」

Bruno Antony:「(he raises his hands toward Mrs. Cunningham's throat, then stops a moment to ask) You don't mind if I borrow your neck for a moment do you?」
narrator:MRS. CUNNINGHAM (giggles) Well, it's not for long.
Bruno Antony:「Oh! no. (he takes a drink and puts his glass down) Now, when I nod my head, just see if you can cry out, and I bet you can't. (he places his hands around Mrs. Cunningham's neck) Now with my two thumbs...you see that's where I'll be able to prevent any sound coming from you. Now, just wait for the nod of my head.」

narrator:MEDIUM SHOT
 Bruno is now half awake. Almost without seeing Guy, he staggers to his feet and begins to make his way to the door. Guy advances, and with a sharp thrust, pushes Bruno back on the settee.
 Bruno looks and sees Guy clearly for the first time.
Bruno Antony:「What happened? I was on a merry-go- round somewhere. It made me dizzy.」
narrator:Guy moves forward, and thrusting his hand in Bruno's open shirt, pulls him to his feet. Bruno ignores Guy's violence and remain puzzled.
GUY:「disgusted) You're a mad, crazy maniac, and you ought to be locked-up! Now will you get out of here and let me alone?」
Bruno Antony:「But, Guy --」
narrator:Guy smashes Bruno in the jaw, in utter disgust, and knocks him back onto the settee. Bruno looks up from his sprawled position, a dull look in his eye.
Bruno Antony:「You shouldn't have done that, Guy.」

narrator:CAMERA PANS WITH THEM as Guy starts to escort Bruno from the room.
GUY:「Have you got a car here?」
Bruno Antony:「mumbling) Driver's outside.」

narrator:MED. SHOT
 Bruno rises from the bed and sits on the and of it. He is fully dressed, just as he was at the party, in white tie and tails.
Bruno Antony:「politely) My father isn't home tonight, Mr. Haines. (smiles grimly at Guy's surprise) I was about to tell you that over the phone. But you came to such a sudden decision. I wondered why.」

Bruno Antony:「Then a I correct, Mr. Haines, in assuming that you have no intention of going ahead with our arrangement?」
GUY:「No intention whatsoever.
 I never had.」
Bruno Antony:「I see. You won't have any further use for the key, then, Mr. Haines. (he holds out his hand and Guy gives him the key) Thank you very such.」

narrator:TWO SHOT
 Guy's arguments have made no impression on Bruno whatsoever. He fingers the gun.
Bruno Antony:「I don't like to be doublecrossed. (MORE)」

Bruno Antony:「I have a murder on my conscience, but it's not my murder, Mr. Haines -- it's yours. And as you're the one to profit, I think you should be the one to pay for it.」

narrator:INT. HALLWAY MED. SHOT
 Guy walks toward the stairs, tense and apprehensive. Bruno is following him, still holding the gun. When the Great Dane sees Bruno it gets to its feet, as if waiting for a command.
 Guy starts down the stairs but Bruno stays where he is, the dog beside him. Gay turns and looks back it this tableaux of menace.
Bruno Antony:「Don't worry. I'm not going to shoot you, Mr. Haines. It might disturb mother. (with a feeling of power) I'm a very clever follow. I'll think of something better than that. Much better.」

narrator:MRS. ANTONY (she sighs and rises, winding it up) Well, Miss Burton, it was very nice of you to call. You must excuse me now. I must get back to my painting. Do you care for painting, Miss Burton? I find it so soothing. (shakes Anne's hand) You must come again sometime.
 She goes out. Anne is left helpless, standing in the middle of the room. She picks up her purse and is about to go when she hears a voice: BRUNO'S VOICE Oh, Miss Burton!
 Anne turns back in direction of the voice. CAMERA
 PULLS BACK until we can see the feet of Bruno protruding from behind a chair in which he is sitting. He has obviously
 heard the entire conversation between Anne and his mother.
 Bruno rises. He is in dressing gown and pajamas.
Bruno Antony:「I'm afraid mother wasn't very helpful, was she? (he strolls toward Anne) You know she hasn't been well for a long time. She's a little -- how shall I say -- confused. (shakes his head commiseratingly) Poor mother.」
narrator:Anne is too stunned to speak.
Bruno Antony:「You know, I'm very upset with Guy. He shouldn't have sent you on an errand like this.」

ANNE:「Guy doesn't know I'm here, Mr. Antony.」
Bruno Antony:「He's been leading you up the garden path, I'm afraid. He must be very desperate to try to involve me. I've been protecting him ever since we had that conversation on the train and he told me how he hated his wife.」

narrator:Bruno is now standing near the
 window a little apart from Anne, with his back to him. He
 takes something out of the pocket of his dressing gown and
 looks down at it in his hand. It is Guy's lighter. Suddenly
 he stuffs it back his pocket and turn back to Anne.
Bruno Antony:「Why, do you know, Miss Burton, he tried to get me to go back to the island one night after dark and pick up his lighter so the police wouldn't find it? He dropped it there, you know, when -- well, that night.」
narrator:Anne's horror is growing. BRUNO The whole thing's been worrying me so much. But of course I couldn't do it, Miss Burton. It would have been too risky. And besides, it would have made me an accessory.
 Anne stares at this insane man and sinks on the settee.
 She starts to cry in sheer frustration. Bruno goes to her sympathetically.
Bruno Antony:「Miss Burton, I know how you feel.」
narrator:He puts his hand on her shoulder. Anne flings it off. There is an awkward pause as Bruno looks down at her. Then he begins to look around restlessly.

Bruno Antony:「Miss Burton, you must excuse me. I have an urgent appointment. (looks it his watch) I must go up and change. Now, I really must go...if you'll excuse me...」

Bruno Antony:「Down there -- my -- my cigarette -- (catches himself -- not wanting to say "cigarette lighter") case. It's very valuable.」
narrator:PORTER (peering down) Down here?
Bruno Antony:「You've got to get this grating up right away. Two passersby enter.」
narrator:FIRST PASSERBY What's the trouble?
Bruno Antony:「yelling) Can't we do something...! (to passerby) I dropped my cigarette case.」
narrator:PORTER (looking down) Mightn't be any good, mister. Probably gone down the storm drain.
Bruno Antony:「horrified) Storm drain?」
narrator:FIRST PASSERBY On the other hand, it might have lodged on the edge.
 SECOND PASSERBY Don't they have a trap down there -- like under a sink?
Bruno Antony:「excited) Don't just stand here -- do something!」

narrator:PORTER Worst he could do would be to tell me to take a running jump and -- (Bruno grabs his arm. Porter shakes Bruno off) Relax, mister.
Bruno Antony:「I don't want to relax.」

narrator:MED. CLOSE SHOT
 as Guy and Turley enter to the spot where Bruno is pinned under the overturned machine.
 He is caught between two of the horses, the head of one of them across his chest. Bruno's head sags back somewhat, but is resting on pieces of debris. A uniformed policeman looks up from Bruno to Turley:
 POLICEMAN This one's in a pretty bad way, Mr. Turley.
 Guy is shocked at the sight of Bruno.
GUY:「looking down at Bruno) Can't you get that stuff off him?」
narrator:POLICEMAN No, they've done everything they can until the crane comes.
 Bruno opens his eyes and sees Guy.
Bruno Antony:「Hello, Guy.」
narrator:Turley has leaned forward to look at the helpless Bruno.
Bruno Antony:「weakly nodding at Turley) Who's that?」
GUY:「This is Mr. Turley, Chief of Police.」
Bruno Antony:「with a half smile) So they got you at last, eh, Guy?」

Bruno Antony:「with a faint, quizzical smile) I haven't got it. It's still on the island where you left it.」
