Scene 1:「Sookie is in Dawn 's bedroom . Dawn 's alarm clock is buzzing .」
Sookie ( screaming ):「Help ! Someone , please !」
narration:Sookie moves to Dawn 's body , lying in bed .
Sookie:「Sweetie . What did you get yourself into ?」
narration:Sookie pulls the sheet over Dawn 's face . Cut to a vase falling to the floor and shattering . Sookie turns around , and Jason enters the room and stares at Dawn 's body .
Sookie:「Oh my God , Jason .」
narration:Sookie moves toward Jason , and hugs him .
Sookie:「Oh , my God .」
Jason:「It 's OK .」
Sookie ( screaming , beating on Jason with her open hands ):「Like hell it is ! Look at her ! She is definitely not ... okay !」
Jason:「Bangin ' on me ai n't gon na change anything none .」
Miss Lefebvre ( off - camera ):「Dawn ? I heard yelling .」
narration:Dawn 's neighbor , Miss Lefebvre , enters the room , looks at Sookie and Jason , and sees Dawn 's body in bed .
Miss Lefebvre:「Sweet Lord in heaven . No .」
narration:Miss Lefebvre makes the Sign of the Cross on herself , walks to Dawn 's bed and looks at the body .
Miss Lefebvre ( turning to Jason , angry ):「What did you do ?」
Jason:「Me ?」
Sookie:「I found her , Miss Lefebvre . He ... just got here .」
Miss Lefebvre:「I saw you last night , Jason Stackhouse . I heard y' all fightin ' , then she took a shot at you , and you ran off . And now she 's dead .」
Sookie:「Jason ?」
Jason:「Yeah . We had a fight . But I came here to apologize .」
narration:Jason holds up a small bouquet of flowers .
Sookie:「She fired a gun at you , and you come back to apologize ?」
Jason:「Sook ... I did n't do this ! You got ta believe me .」
Miss Lefebvre:「Well , I 'm calling the police .」
narration:Miss Lefebvre leaves the room .
Jason:「Well , call 'em !」
narration:Jason throws the bouquet across the room .
Jason:「I had nothing to do with this .」
narration:Jason leaves the bedroom , then violently swings open the front door of Dawn 's apartment
 # 5044
 , sits on the porch , and looks over his left shoulder , frightened .
 Cut to opening credits to the tune of " Bad Things " by Jace Everett
Scene 2:「A crowd has gathered outside of Dawn 's apartment . Sookie 's car is parked directly in front .」
Hoyt:「I do n't get it . She was so pretty .」
Arlene:「Well , maybe ... it was just her time .」

René:「Ahhhhhh ... she was only twen'y - t 're e years old . Ai n't no twen'y - t 're e - year - old in the world whose time has come .」
narration:Mrs. Fortenberry , holding a leaf fan , joins them .
Mrs. Fortenberry:「Hey , y' all . What 'd I miss ?」
Hoyt:「Dawn 's dead , Mama .」
Mrs. Fortenberry:「I know . What a shame . Who they got in there ?」
Arlene:「Jason and Sookie Stackhouse . She found the body , but it sounds like they think he might have done it .」
Hoyt:「Well , he did n't !」
Mrs. Fortenberry:「Then who did ?」
Arlene:「I do n't know .」
Hoyt:「Probably the same person that killed Maudette .」
René:「I tell you one t'ing , man . We too small a town to be losin ' girls one after ta udder like this . Whoever it is , I hope they fry the < snip > .」
Arlene:「René !」
René ( turns to Mrs. Fortenberry ):「Uh , pardon my language , Miss Maxine .」
Mrs. Fortenberry:「No need to apologize , René . We 're all excited . Mmm , mmm ! To be a fly on the wall」
narration:in that apartment right now !
Scene 3:「Close - up of Dawn 's face , now uncovered . A fly has landed on her lower lip . Sheriff Bud Dearborne and Detective Andy Bellefleur are speaking with Sookie and Jason in Dawn 's living room .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne ( to Sookie ):「Now , I realize you 've been through a lot . And you 're scared . But I need you to try and remember when you got here . Was the door open ? Or just unlocked ?」
Sookie:「Uh ... o - open , I think .」
narration:Bud writes " KILLER HAD KEY ? " on a memo pad as Sookie begins hearing the thoughts of others in the apartment .
Andy Bellefleur ( thinking ):「It < snip > me off the way she keeps callin ' me " Andy . " Everyone calls Bud " sheriff . " Why ca n't they call me " detective , " < snip > damn it ? When am I gon na get some respect around here ? I 'm a detective - [ unintelligible ]」
Unnamed Police Officer in Dawn 's bedroom ( thinking ):「Would you look at that ? A fine pair of perfect , natural breasts . I 'd have laid down money that they were fake . Well done , God . Now and then , not so well done , letting her die like You did .」
Jason ( thinking ):「< snip > . < snip > . < snip > am I gon na do ? I already got out of this once . No way they gon na let me walk again . And I 'm too damned pretty to go to prison .」

Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Sookie !」
narration:Sookie is startled .
Sookie:「Sorry ... um , what was the question ?」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Is that the exact position you found her in ?」
Sookie:「Well , I covered her up with a sheet , but I do n't think I touched her .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「I wish you had n't o ' done that .」
Sookie:「Next time I find a friend of mine dead , I 'll try to remember that .」
Scene 4:「The crowd outside Dawn 's apartment .」
Mrs. Fortenberry ( fanning herself ):「Uhh ! I keep waiting for this heat to break , but it wo n't .」
Arlene:「Uhh ! It 's the stubbornest summer we 're having .」
Mrs. Fortenberry:「Oh , I know . I feel like a cat on a hot tin roof . That 's from a play .」
narration:Hoyt snorts and winces .
René:「Well , I sho could use a beer right now in me . Y'all want some ?」
narration:René walks toward
 his / Arlene 's / his and Arlene 's , maybe ?
 apartment
 # 5048
 .
Hoyt:「Yeah , if you 're getting one .」
Mrs. Fortenberry:「Bring me one , wouldja ?」
Arlene:「While you 're in there , would you mind rustlin ' up a bucket of ice ? And some of those nice plastic cups we got at the Super Save - A - Bunch last weekend ?」
René:「Yeah .」
Arlene:「And maybe some paper doilies ?」
René:「Lord , woman , what 's wit'choo and them doilies ? Doilies are to protect the table . We outside .」
Arlene:「They might wanna put 'em down on the car or something . Just bring the doilies , please .」
René:「Fine .」
narration:René goes inside .
Arlene ( to Mrs. Fortenberry ):「If all our conversations end with them saying " fine , " why do they bother putting up a fight ?」
narration:Arlene and Mrs. Fortenberry chuckle .
Scene 5:「Detective Andy Bellefleur and Miss Lefebvre are seated in Dawn 's living room . Andy questions her .」
Andy Bellefleur:「So this fight you heard Dawn and Jason havin'」
Miss Lefebvre:「Just the tail end , right before the gunshot . He called her ...」
narration:An off - camera male voice is heard in the background , ostensibly coming from Dawn 's bedroom . The commentary is very difficult to understand clearly , and continues for the duration of this scene .
Miss Lefebvre:「... a very bad word .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Uh , huh . And what was that word ?」
narration:The male voice is heard saying " I found her underwear " .

Miss Lefebvre:「Well ... it starts with , uh ... a " B " .」
Andy Bellefleur:「I see .」
narration:Andy writes " Bitch -- > gunshot " on his memo pad . The male voice is heard saying " shot " .
Andy Bellefleur:「OK . That 'll be all . Thank you , Miss Lefebvre .」
Miss Lefebvre:「Oh ... you 're welcome , Andy , dear . ( Miss Lefebvre smiles , pats Andy on the hand , gets up and leaves the apartment . Andy does a slow burn . The male voice is heard saying " How undignified , dyin ' without your underwear on . " )」
Scene 6:「Outside Dawn 's apartment . Jason is handcuffed as Andy leads him to the police car , purposely bumping Jason into it . After opening the left rear door , Andy throws Jason into the car as Sookie watches from the front porch . Andy shuts the door , and Jason raises himself up to a seated position .」
Jason:「Ai ... ai ... it 's hot .」
narration:Jason tries to roll down the window . There is no handle inside the police car for him to do that .
Jason ( screaming to Andy , who is still outside ):「Hey . Hey ! Hey ! You gon na make me wait in the car , can you at least turn on the A.C. ? I know you can hear me !」
narration:Andy puts on his sunglasses , pretending not to notice Jason .
Jason:「< snip > . [ heavy sigh ] Oh , < snip > .」
narration:Jason takes out the vial of V - juice from his jeans pocket , looks around , uncaps the vial , and drinks the V - juice . Jason places the empty vial in the space between the right rear passenger side back and seat cushions just before Andy gets in the car .
Jason:「Could n't hear me yellin ' ? Car 's hotter than hell .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Shut up .」
narration:An older - model sport - utility vehicle approaches , driven by Sam Merlotte . He is wearing sunglasses . Sookie is still standing on the front porch as Bud leaves the apartment .
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Thank you , Sookie . We 'll be in touch .」
narration:Andy Bellefleur
 shouting
 Bud ! Let 's roll before I melt in here !
Hoyt:「Stop it , Mama ! I do n't need any sunblock .」
narration:Mrs. Fortenberry is applying sunblock to Hoyt 's bare arms and face as Arlene watches .
Mrs. Fortenberry:「Oh , please Hoyt . If anyone needs sunblock , it 's you . Your skin 's whiter than Desitin .」
Hoyt:「Mama , I 'm gon na move out . I swear it , I will .」
narration:Sam has exited his SUV and walks past the Fortenberrys toward Dawn 's apartment .
Mrs. Fortenberry:「No , you wo n't ! Now get down , so I can get your neck !」

narration:Mrs. Fortenberry continues applying sunblock to Hoyt . Sam passes Bud as he enters the front passenger side of the police car . Andy starts the engine , sounds the siren , and the sound of the car leaving can be heard . Sookie is sitting down on the porch now , and looks up to see Sam , not wearing sunglasses .
Sam:「Came as soon as I heard .」
narration:Sam sits down next to Sookie . He is holding his sunglasses in his left hand .
Sam:「I 'm sorry you had to be the one to find her .」
Sookie:「It was gon na be somebody , right ?」
Sam:「I guess . Oh , I tell you , Sook . Sometimes I do n't even recognize this world we 're livin ' in . I mean , < snip > damn it !」
Sookie:「Be careful , now ! God did n't do this .」
narration:Sam chuckles quietly and smiles at Sookie .
Sam:「You think maybe I should ... shut down the bar for the day ?」
Sookie:「All that 'd do is deny people a good , stiff drink on the day they could use it the most .」
Sam:「Yeah , but ...」
Sookie:「I know it 's supposed to be my day off and all , but the last thing I need right now is time alone with my thoughts .」
Sam:「All right , then . We 'll open .」
Sookie:「I may be late , though . I got ta swing by home and tell Gran what 's goin' on .」
Sam:「It 's Bon Temps . She already knows .」
Sookie:「Still , with ... Jason and everything ...」
Unnamed police officer ( off - camera ):「Excuse me , are you Mr. Merlotte ?」
narration:Sam and Sookie turn around to see an Unnamed Police Officer behind them .
Sam:「Yes :」
Unnamed Police Officer:「Detective in charge tells me you 're the landlord .」
Sam:「That 's right .」
Unnamed Police Officer:「We need to get in the victim 's storage unit , but we do n't have a key . If you could find one , it 'd be a big help right about now .」
narration:Sam stands up to take some keys on a key ring out of his pocket . He bends over , kisses Sookie on the top of her head . Sookie stares downward .
Neil Jones ( off - camera ):「Uhh , Miss ?」
narration:Sookie turns her head to the front door to see Neil Jones , wearing a navy blue work vest with " CORONER " in gray letters across the back shoulders , and a navy blue ball - cap with " CORONER " across the front , trying to exit the front door .
Neil Jones:「Could you please let us by ?」

narration:Sookie moves to allow Neil Jones and the Coroner , Mike Spencer , by . Mike Spencer is wearing the same type of vest and ball - cap Neil Jones is wearing . The two are carrying what is probably Dawn 's body in a black plastic bag . They move awkwardly along the narrow porch .
Mike Spencer ( to Sookie ):「Neil Jones , my new apprentice .」
narration:The top half of Neil Jones 's face is obscured by the brim of the ball - cap he is wearing . He is Caucasian with brown hair .
Mike Spencer:「He 's from Kentucky .」
Neil Jones:「Hi .」
Sookie:「Uh ... hi .」
Mike Spencer:「Lift , kid . Come on , lift . Ugh !」
narration:Sookie watches as Mike Spencer and Neil Jones take Dawn 's body to a sport - utility vehicle .
Mike Spencer:「You do n't have to be too careful . ( small chuckle ) Ai n't gon na hurt her .」
Neil Jones:「OK .」
narration:Mike Spencer and Neil Jones load the body into the back of the sport - utility vehicle . Sookie watches them , and we hear the rear doors of the sport - utility vehicle close .
Scene 7:「The police station inside Bon Temps Town Hall . Bud and Andy are sitting on the same side of a desk , and Jason sits on the opposite side . There is a cassette recorder in front of Bud and Andy . There is a microphone on a stand in front of Jason , as is an opened cellophane wrapper . Bud is chewing on an unlit cigar .」
Andy Bellefleur:「So you had a fight .」
narration:Jason licks his fingers .
Andy Bellefleur:「She took a shot at you with a gun , and you just left ? Did n't see her again till you showed up with booze and flowers and found her dead this mornin ' ?」
Jason:「That 's my story , and it ai n't gon na change .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Except it just did change . You just admitted you 're the one who found her , not Sookie .」
Jason:「Uh , no I did n't . Uh , you 're tryin ' to trick me ! It do n't count if I get tricked . Does it ?」
narration:Bud takes the cigar from his mouth .
Andy Bellefleur:「Make you hot , Jason ? Killing girls and stickin ' it to 'em ?」
narration:Jason fidgets .
Jason:「No .」
Andy Bellefleur:「See , I think it does . I think it turns you on .」
Jason:「Sounds to me like it turns you on .」
narration:Bud laughs . Andy looks at him with an angry look on his face .
Andy Bellefleur:「Tell me , is that how you do it ? Kill 'em then < snip > 'em ? Or do you < snip > 'em and then kill 'em ? Or I know ...」
narration:Andy stands up at looks down at Jason .

Andy Bellefleur:「You strangle 'em as you 're < snip > ' 'em , do n't you , you sick < snip > ?」
narration:We see Jason 's crotch from underneath the desk , and something is coming up for Jason . Something very hard for him to ignore . Jason looks down at his crotch , and crosses his hands over his lap .
Andy Bellefleur:「How many other women you done this to besides Dawn and Maudette ?」
Jason:「Maudette ? I ... I didn't ... I got ta use the bathroom .」
narration:Jason turns to get up from his chair . He leaves the room , and Andy starts to follow him , but is grabbed by Bud .
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Man 's got ta pee , Andy .」
narration:Jason is walking very quickly past some cubicles , trying to find the bathroom .
Jason ( to anyone in the cubicles within earshot ):「Bathroom ? Bathroom ?」
narration:An Unnamed Cubicle Slave stands up and points to the bathroom .
Unnamed Cubicle Slave:「It 's over there .」
narration:Jason makes his way to the bathroom in the lobby of the police station . He winces in pain as he pushes open the door to the bathroom . He wanders to the sink and bends down over it . He unbuttons the front button of his jeans .
Jason:「Ahh . < snip > !」
Andy Bellefleur ( off - camera ):「You should n't have laughed .」
narration:Bud and Andy are sitting at the desk , waiting for Jason to return .
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「What are you talking about ?」
Andy Bellefleur:「When he came back at me with that crack about me bein ' the one getting ' turned on , you shouldn'ta laughed .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「I guess it just struck me as funny , 'cause you were working so hard on him , and I do n't think he did it .」
narration:Jason is still in the bathroom , looking downward .
Jason ( whispering ):「What the < snip > ?」
narration:Jason struggles to undo his jeans . Bud and Andy continue their discussion .
Andy Bellefleur:「Bud , we got two dead girls , and this dumb < snip > admits to sleepin ' with both of 'em within hours before they were killed .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Yeah , and both our dead girls got bit by vampires too . Far as I can tell , Stackhouse do n't have fangs .」
narration:Jason is still at the sink in the bathroom trying to undo his jeans . He screams in agony . Bud and Andy hear Jason 's scream at the desk . Jason falls against a wall and to the floor of the men 's room , his right hand tucked into the front of his jeans . Bud and Andy get up from the desk to see what the matter is . When they get to the bathroom door , they find it is locked . Andy beats on the door with his open left hand . Jason looks as if he 's about to cry , and hears Andy .

Andy Bellefleur:「What the hell you doing in there , Stackhouse ?」
Jason:「I ... I'll be out in a minute !」
narration:Jason looks around .
Jason:「What the < snip > was that ?」
narration:Bud and Andy try to unlock the bathroom door , marked with a blue circular sign with pictographs for " man " and " woman " in white directly above the word " RESTROOM " in white letters . Jason uses the sink to raise himself slightly off the floor . Jason tries to get some paper towels from the dispenser next to the sink , but it seems to be empty .
Jason:「< snip > , you got ta be < snip > me !」
( Jason turns to his right and unrolls a length of toilet paper , tears it up , and seems to stuff it in his jeans . Tara has arrived at a building marked " Bon Temps Town Hall " on its exterior , parking her car in front of it . She exits the car , slams the car door , and quickly walks to the glass front door , surrounded by glass on either side and at the top . In the lobby , above the entry doors , see the numbers 4440 are seen in reverse . Tara is opening the front door as Bud and Andy are still trying to open the bathroom door . ) Jason ( from inside the men 's room ):「I said , hold on . I 'll be there .」
narration:Tara enters the lobby and approaches Bud and Andy .
Tara:「Sheriff Dearborne . Andy .」
narration:Bud and Andy turn toward Tara .
Tara:「I hear you guys brought Jason in .」
narration:The words " City of Bon Temps " is seen in reverse on the glass entry door as it closes behind Tara .
Andy Bellefleur:「So ?」
Tara:「You chargin ' him with anything ?」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Not yet .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Just askin ' him some questions .」
Tara:「I assume he 's been properly Mirandized , then .」
narration:Bud and Andy exercise their right to remain silent .
Tara:「Please tell me you informed him he has a right to have an attorney present .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Maybe . Does n't matter though , 'cause he 's got you here now . ( Andy snorts )」
Tara:「Is that funny 'cause I 'm a woman or 'cause I 'm a black woman ?」
Andy Bellefleur:「I thought it was funny , you know , just 'cause you can talk like a lawyer , but you ai n't one .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「How do you know all this anyway ? You been takin ' night classes ?」
Tara:「School is just for white people looking for other white people to read to 'em . I figure I save my money and read to myself .」
narration:Jason opens the bathroom door , somewhat sweaty , nods slightly at Bud and Andy , and looks at Tara .
Jason:「Tara ...」
Tara:「I 'm gettin ' you out of here .」

Andy Bellefleur:「Like hell you are .」
Tara:「You chargin ' him with anything ?」
narration:Jason walks between Bud and Andy toward Tara .
Sheriff Bud Dearborne ( to Andy ):「She 's right . We ca n't hold him .」
Andy Bellefleur:「He ca n't say where he was last night . The least he coulda done was make some < snip > up .」
Jason:「Listen , I told you where I was . I was ... home alone . Sleepin ' .」
Andy Bellefleur:「You never sleep alone , Stackhouse , and you know it !」
Tara:「Guys , he was wit ' me .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne ( off - camera ):「What 's this , now ?」
Andy Bellefleur:「If y' all were together last night , how come he do n't seem to know it ?」
Tara:「Because I asked him not to tell anybody about us . And he 's just surprised to hear me bein ' the one blabbin ' about it . Are n't you , baby ?」
Jason:「Umm ...」
narration:Jason looks at Andy .
Jason:「... yeah .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Wha ... ?」
narration:Andy snickers .
Andy Bellefleur ( to Bud ):「You buyin ' this ?」
narration:Tara looks directly at Bud and Andy as Jason looks at the floor .
Tara:「People think just because we got vampires out in the open now , race is n't the issue no more . But you ever see the way folks look at mixed couples in this town ? Race may not be the hot - button issue it once was , but it 's still a button you can push on people .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Would you be willin ' to go on record with this ?」
Tara:「Yes .」
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「Understandin ' you 're lyin ' , you 'd be guilty ...」
Tara:「Perjury . ( nods ) I know . You got a Bible ? I 'll swear on it right here . Jason and I were together last night and it was a beautiful thing .」
narration:Tara looks lovingly at Jason and moves closer to him . Jason looks at Tara , smiles , and nods . Bud and Andy look at one another in disbelief .
Sheriff Bud Dearborne:「OK . You 're free to go .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Ohh ... Jesus !」
Tara ( to Jason ):「Come on , baby . Let 's take you home .」
Jason:「OK , baby .」
narration:Jason nods at Bud and Andy , shoves open the door and leaves the Town Hall with Tara , flashing a " peace " sign as he walks away .
Scene 8:「The kitchen of Gran 's and Sookie 's house . Gran is walking to the kitchen sink when Sookie walks in from the dining room .」
Sookie:「Hey , Gran .」
narration:Gran looks up from the sink at Sookie .
Gran:「I heard .」

Sookie:「About Jason too ?」
Gran:「Um , hmm . He did n't do it , you know .」
Sookie:「I know .」
Gran:「Jason may be many things , but he 's not a murderer .」
Sookie:「I know ...」
narration:Sookie takes a step toward Gran .
Gran:「The thing is though , Sookie ... in all the years that I 've lived in Bon Temps , I ca n't recall but ... two , maybe three murders , and now there are two in one week . People are not gon na stand for it . And if the police ca n't find the person who did it , they 're gon na find Jason . He needs your help .」
Sookie:「Gran , how am I supposed to ...」
Gran:「You use the gift God gave you . Listen in on people , keep your ears open . You 're bound to hear somethin' .」
Sookie:「It 's got nothing to do with my ears .」
Gran:「Whatever it is you use to listen , use it . He is your brother , Sookie .」
narration:Sookie nods .
Sookie:「OK .」
Gran:「Good girl !」
narration:Gran hugs Sookie . Sookie smiles and nods , then leaves .
Scene 9:「Evening . The parking lot of Merlotte 's looks full . Inside , Sookie is taking an order from the kitchen to a table .」
Lafayette ( off - camera ):「Come and pick up your < snip > orders out the window ...」
narration:Sookie looks around , hearing thoughts . She sees a man with a mustache sitting at a booth with a blond woman .
Man With Mustache ( thinking ):「Who killed Dawn ? I wonder if he had s*x with her or not . Seems like a waste if he did n't . She sure was pretty . Never even looked at me .」
Older blond woman in blue shirt ( thinking ; off - camera ):「Ca n't get that letter in Cosmo out of my head .」
narration:Sookie sees an older blond woman in a blue shirt at a different table .
Older blond woman in blue shirt ( thinking ):「How much better could an orgasm with a vampire be ? I wonder , is it that much better ?」
narration:Sookie notices a good ol' boy sitting elsewhere in the restaurant .
Good ol' boy ( thinking ):「What the hell is this world coming to ? Dead < snip > s , < snip > s , and regular folk all livin ' together . If God wanted it like this , he 'd have made us look the same . It ai n't good . Maybe these really are the end times .」
Large woman ( thinking ; off - camera ):「I do n't know what everybody 's so upset about ...」
narration:Sookie notices a large woman with curly hair sitting at a booth , licking her fingers .
Large woman with curly hair ( thinking ):「If you ask me , these whores had it comin ' , hangin ' out in vampire bars . That ai n't natural , and it ai n't safe .」

narration:Sookie takes the order to her customer , an older large woman with short , straight hair , resting her head on her left hand .
Sookie 's Customer ( thinking ):「You seem sad that girl is dead . I wonder if y' all were friends . And if you were , that means you 're probably next . < snip > fang - bangers ...」
narration:Sookie places the plates of food on the table . The customer smiles slightly at Sookie .
Sookie 's Customer:「Thank you .」
narration:Sookie 's Customer
 thinking
 ... crazy , every last one of you . Just like those women who write love letters to serial killers ...
 Sookie leaves her customer 's booth when her customer looks at her order .
Sookie 's Customer:「Hey ... hey ! I asked for ranch dressing with these fries .」
narration:Sookie and Arlene approach the bar simultaneously . Arlene places her tray on the bar , and the bartender places a draft beer in a mug on it .
Arlene ( to the bartender ):「Two margaritas .」
Arlene ( to Sookie ):「That Dawn sure left us high and dry , did n't she ?」
narration:Arlene adjusts her apron .
Sookie:「It 's not like she meant not to be here .」
Arlene:「I know , but if she did n't spend her nights off at that vamp bar in Shreveport , she still would be .」
Sookie:「Did I just hear you right , Arlene ? You ought to be ashamed of yourself .」
Arlene:「Oh , please . Ai n't there even a part of you think she had it comin ' ?」
Sookie:「No ! Not a single part . And I 'm takin ' your ranch .」
narration:Sookie takes a small bowl of ranch dressing off Arlene 's tray and walks away as the bartender places two margaritas on the tray .
Arlene:「Hey !」
narration:Tara walks into Merlotte 's . As the camera follows her , Sam is revealed to be tending bar .
Sam:「You 're late .」
Tara:「Sorry , boss .」
narration:Tara ties an apron around her waist .
Sam:「Hey , listen . We should probably talk . About last night .」
Tara:「What about last night ?」
Sam:「You 're gon na make this hard on me , are n't you ?」
Tara:「Actually , no , I 'm gon na make it very , very easy . Nothing happened between us last night . And if anybody asks , you did n't see me at all , OK ? I 'm tellin ' people I spent the night with Jason .」
Sam:「Jason Stackhouse ?」
Tara:「Yes . I was with Jason Stackhouse last night , and if you say different , they 're gon na haul both our asses into jail .」
Sam:「You lied to the police for him ? < snip > , Tara . I know you carry a torch for the guy , but ... I do n't get it , I really do n't .」

Tara:「There 's more to Jason than meets than eye . Deep down he is a very good person .」
narration:Tara walks away from Sam .
Scene 10:「Jason 's house . He is sitting down , shirtless , a hand towel draped over his shoulders , drinking beer from a bottle and pleasuring himself while watching p0rn on TV . After he finishes the task at hand , he looks downward , seemingly upset .」
Jason:「< snip > ! Go < snip > down .」
narration:Frustrated , Jason begins pleasuring himself again . He seems to be somewhat impatient .
Jason:「Oh , come on .」
narration:The video ends , the TV screen goes blue , then displays a news show on TBBN . Part of the caption reads " Violence in the Middle East " .
News Announcer ( off - screen ):「In Iraq today , 10 U.S. Marines were killed when a ...」
narration:Jason is reclining on his bed , with a painful expression on his face . He looks at his right hand . There is a large blister between his thumb and index finger .
Jason ( whispering ):「Ahh ... <snip > !」
narration:Jason looks down toward his crotch , and begins to cry .
Jason ( whispering ):「Oh , baby . My sweet , sweet baby !」
Scene 11:「Merlotte 's . Sookie walks past some men playing pool . She has two mugs of beer on her tray . She sets one down on a shelf on a wall near the pool table , and as she walks away , she hears thoughts from a large older man sitting at a booth with a large older blond woman .」
Large Older Man ( thinking ):「Sure is too bad about Dawn . I already miss the way her butt used to hang out of the bottom of her shorts .」
Large Older Blond Woman ( thinking ; looking at Sookie ):「Sookie Stackhouse , I hope that brother of yours gets what he deserves and he fries for what he 's done . They were trash .」
narration:Sookie looks around , and sees Hoyt .
Hoyt ( thinking ):「Crying shame is what it is . This place ai n't gon na be the same without Dawn . She had the prettiest , nicest smile . Why was I so scared to talk to her ? I 'll never know what her voice sounded like . I bet it sounded like angels and parakeets mixed together .」
narration:Sookie turns to Hoyt and approaches him .
Sookie:「Hoyt Fortenberry .」
narration:Hoyt turns around , looks nervously at Sookie .
Sookie:「I just wanted to say thank you .」
Hoyt:「For ... uhh ... for what ?」
narration:Sookie gets up on her tiptoes and kisses Hoyt on his left cheek . He beams , and laughs .
Hoyt:「OK . Umm ... all right then .」
narration:Sookie leaves Hoyt and walks over to Jason .
Sookie:「Jason , you look me in the eye and you tell me the truth」

Jason:「What ? No . Jesus , Sook . Look , when Maudette died , I thought I might'a done it . And it turned out I did n't . With Dawn , I do n't even think I might'a done it , so I know I did n't .」
Sookie:「You swear ?」
Jason:「But the way you 're actin ' , it seems like you want it to be me .」
Sookie:「Sorry . Gr .. Gran asked me to listen in on folks , see if I ca n't clear your name . And sometimes it 's hard ...」
Jason:「Yih - yih - yih ... I got ta stop you , because it sounds like you 're revvin ' up for a long one . And I really need to see Lafayette . Talk to you later .」
narration:Jason leaves Sookie and goes to the kitchen of Merlotte 's , where Lafayette is chopping green , yellow , and red peppers . Jason opens the door to the kitchen .
Jason:「What the < snip > , Lafayette ?」
narration:Lafayette , wearing a tight green t - shirt , a white apron , and a magenta babushka , does n't look at Jason .
Lafayette:「I 'm busy . What 's your problem ?」
Jason:「My problem is my < snip > !」
narration:Lafayette looks over at Jason .
Jason:「It 's been hard since three o'clock ! Now , somethin' went wrong with that vamp ...」
narration:Lafayette stops chopping .
Lafayette:「Will you shut the < snip > up ?」
Jason:「Sorry .」
narration:Lafayette looks around to see if anyone heard , then looks over at Jason .
Lafayette:「It 's your loud ass . And ai n't nothing wrong with the < snip > I sold you .」
Jason:「What the hell is it ?」
Lafayette:「How much you take ?」
Jason:「The whole thing .」
narration:Lafayette looks down , and laughs .
Lafayette:「You took the whole thing ? You a dizzy < snip > . I said one drop , two max , and you took the whole thing ?」
Jason:「I was in the back seat of a cop car , I had it on me , and I panicked , OK ? Now , just give me somethin' to make it go away , I do n't care what it costs .」
Lafayette:「Ai n't no antidote to V , boyfriend .」
narration:Lafayette chuckles .
Jason:「When my grandpa was alive , he had gout . And he said just the weight of a sheet on his big toe was too much to bear . So help me God , that 's exactly what this feels like .」
Lafayette:「Maybe you should try rubbin ' one out .」
Jason:「Were you listenin ' to me ? ( yelling ) I got gout of the < snip > !」

Scene 12:「Bill enters Merlotte 's and acknowledges Tara behind the bar , who takes a step back . Bill walks to find a place to sit .」
Unknown Female Voice:「Vampires .」
narration:The men who were playing pool stare at Bill . Bill finds an empty booth and sits down . Arlene looks around and sees Sookie waiting on other customers .
Sookie:「Any fries for you ?」
narration:Arlene walks to Bill 's booth . Tara has her arms folded , and has a mean look on her face as she looks at Bill . Arlene proceeds to take Bill 's order .
Arlene:「What you want ?」
Bill:「May I have a bottle of O Negative , please ?」
narration:Sookie looks around to see Arlene waiting on Bill .
Arlene:「Um , A Negative 's all we got .」
Bill:「A Negative then .」
narration:Arlene writes down Bill 's order , as Bill attempts some small talk with her .
Bill:「Pretty crowded in here tonight . Something going on ?」
narration:Arlene walks away without answering Bill . Bill looks around and sees Sookie , who 's looking at him . Arlene turns in her order to Tara .
Tara:「Sam just bought a case . We got O Neg and A Neg , plenty o ' each .」
Arlene ( making a face ):「< snip > him . I 'm giving him A. And do n't microwave it neither . He can have it cold .」
Tara:「You are so bad .」
( Tara gets a bottle of Tru:「Blood from the cooler , and places it on Arlene 's tray . Sookie approaches Arlene and confronts her . )」
Sookie:「Are we out of O ?」
Arlene:「Blood is blood . What difference does it make ?」
Sookie:「He prefers O. I 'll take it to him if you like .」
Arlene:「Well , good . He gives me the creeps .」
( Arlene walks away , and Sookie takes the Tru:「Blood and a cocktail napkin to Bill . After placing the napkin and bottle on the table , Sookie grabs Bill 's right arm . )」
Sookie:「Come on .」
Bill:「Where are we going ?」
( Bill stands up , taking his Tru:「Blood with him , and goes to the customer parking lot with Sookie as Sam watches . )」
narration:Sookie . You know my friend who works here ? Dawn ? Someone killed her last night .
Bill:「How ?」
Sookie:「Say you 're sorry .」
Bill:「Excuse me ?」
Sookie:「You wanna learn to fit in with people ? You got ta say you 're sorry . You do n't even have to mean it . Lord knows they do n't most of the time .」
Bill:「I am sorry .」
Sookie:「Thank you . Anyway , I 'm the one who found her . Strangled . Cops think it was my brother .」
Bill:「Was it ?」

Sookie:「No , he 's not capable of it .」
Bill:「I 've been around long enough to know just about anyone is capable of just about anything .」
Sookie:「He did n't do it .」
narration:Bill nods .
Sookie:「So I 've been listening in on people 's thoughts , hopin ' I might hear something to clear him . And apparently there 's this vampire bar where Maudette and Dawn used to hang out at in Shreveport . You know it ?」
Bill:「Fangtasia .」
Sookie:「Fang - tay - sha ?」
Bill:「You have to remember that most vampires are very old . Puns used to be the highest form of humor .」
Sookie:「Well , I was thinkin ' if I went there , I could do some sniffin ' around . You think maybe you could take me ?」
Bill:「How about tonight ?」
Sookie:「The sooner the better . I just got ta tell Sam I 'm leavin ' , then run home and change .」
Bill:「Meet you there .」
Sookie ( smiling ):「Thank you . Bill , I 'm askin ' you this as a friend , OK ? This is not a date .」
Bill:「Fine .」
Sookie ( grinning ):「It 's not a date . I 'm serious .」
Bill:「As am I.」
narration:Bill watches Sookie as she returns to Merlotte 's .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
Scene 13:「Sookie opens a door marked " PRIVATE " . It is Sam 's office . Sam is sitting in front of his computer , his back to Sookie .」
Sookie:「Hey , Sam ?」
narration:Sam turns around to look at Sookie .
Sookie:「Is it all right if I take the rest of the night off ?」
Sam:「Why ?」
Sookie:「I need to go to that vampire bar in Shreveport so I can snoop around and see if I can clear my brother 's name , and Mr. Compton was kind enough to agree to take me .」
Sam:「Mr. Compton . Oh , Jesus . Sookie , you gon na get yourself killed , you know that ?」
Sookie:「I 'll be fine .」
Sam:「Hey , the fact that you think you 'll be fine only proves just how not fine you 're gon na be . Vampires think about one thing , and one thing only」
Sookie:「Oh , like humans are n't bloodthirsty ? All those people out there want to see my brother hang for a crime he did n't commit . Is that what you want ?」
Sam:「No . I 'm not saying do n't help your brother ...」
Sookie:「And frankly , Sam , I 'm surprised at you . I thought you were for the Vampire Rights Amendment .」
Sam:「Well , I think they should have their own bars . I just do n't think people ought to go there .」

Sookie:「So you wanna return to the days of " separate but equal " ?」
Sam:「I do n't give a < snip > about equal . We can give 'em more than we got . Just so long as everything 's separate .」
Sookie:「Well , I 'm sorry you feel that way , but ... I 'm goin' .」
Sam:「I ca n't stop you .」
Sookie:「No . You ca n't .」
narration:Sookie turns and leaves Sam 's office , not closing the door . Sam rocks back in his chair and strokes his chin .
Scene 14:「A car is driving on a road . Inside , Sookie is seated on the passenger side while Bill drives . Sookie is wearing a red and white dress with shoulder straps , and her hair is not in a ponytail . Music plays on the car stereo . Sookie looks at Bill .」
Sookie:「Penny for your thoughts .」
Bill:「I thought you liked not knowing my thoughts .」
Sookie:「Most of the time I do .」
Bill:「You wo n't care for it .」
Sookie:「That does n't mean I do n't wanna know .」
Bill ( looking at Sookie ):「You look like vampire bait .」
Sookie ( laughing ):「What 's that supposed to mean ?」
Bill:「I promised your grandmother no harm would come to you at Fangtasia tonight . I 'm not sure I 'm gon na be able to keep that promise with you dressed like this .」
Sookie:「So are you saying you think I look nice ?」
Bill:「Does n't matter what I think . This is n't a date , remember ?」
Scene 15:「The kitchen at Merlotte 's . Tara is carrying a crate of tomatoes to the walk - in . She opens the door of the walk - in , and passes through thick , translucent plastic sheeting , the same type a woman asked Tara about at Super Save - A - Bunch in S1E1 .」
Tara:「This ai n't a part of my job description , < snip > damn it .」
Jason:「Do n't turn around !」
narration:Tara turns around .
Tara:「What ?」
narration:Jason is sitting on the floor of the walk - in , with his jeans around his ankles and a raw steak on his crotch .
Jason:「I said do n't look at me .」
Tara:「What the hell are you doin' ?」
Jason:「I think I might'a OD'd .」
Tara:「Oh , my God . On what ?」
narration:Tara moves toward Jason and places the crate of tomatoes on the floor .
Jason:「V.」
Tara ( irritated ):「You 're doin' V now ?」
Jason:「It was my first time .」
Tara:「Where on earth did you come across V in this town ?」
Jason:「Lafayette .」

Tara:「My cousin is dealin ' vampire blood now ? < snip > damn idiot . Well , at least that explains why I walked in on you dancin ' around in that Laura Bush mask yesterday , 'cause I got ta tell you , without a reason , that was some < snip > up < snip > .」
narration:Jason laughs nervously .
Tara:「All right , let me see it .」
Jason ( looking up at Tara ):「Huh ?」
Tara:「How long have you had the erection ?」
Jason:「Well , how do you know ?」
Tara:「Um , I read . You 're not the first vain - ass , body - conscious ex - jock to overdo the V and wind up with an acute case of priapism .」
Jason:「Pie what ?」
Tara:「Priapism . Now lift the rib - eye and let me see what we 're dealin ' wit ' .」
narration:Jason removes the steak from his crotch .
Tara:「Oh , Jason , that 's ...」
Jason:「Yeah , it 's bad , ai n't it ?」
Tara:「Sweetie , we got ta get you to a hospital now .」
Jason:「No . No . No hospitals . No way .」
Tara:「Do you want to keep your < snip > or not ?」
Scene 16:「The door at Fangtasia . There 's a bouncer in a black t - shirt with his arms crossed . Bill , Sookie , and others approach the door . Sookie and Bill are holding hands , and walk into the club , its red walls dimly lit . A disco version of " Do n't Fear the Reaper " plays .」
Pam:「Bill . Have n't seen you in a while .」
narration:Pam 's hair is pulled back . She 's wearing a black bustier and a necklace . She does not smile .
Bill:「I 'm mainstreamin ' .」
Pam:「Good for you . Who 's the doll ?」
Bill:「Pam , this is Sookie . Sookie , this is Pam .」
Sookie ( smiling ):「Pleased to meet you .」
narration:Sookie extends her hand to Pam , who looks disdainfully at it . Sookie makes a puzzled look with her face , then looks at Bill .
Pam ( to Sookie ):「Can I see your ID ?」
Sookie(smiling ):「Oh . Sure . How funny . Who 'd have thought ? Getting ' carded at a vampire bar .」
Pam:「I can no longer tell human ages . We must be careful we serve no minors ... in any capacity . Twenty - five , huh ? How sweet it is .」
narration:Bill and Sookie leave Pam .
Sookie:「This feels a little bit like what a vampire bar would look like if it were a ... a ride at Disney World .」
Bill:「Well , do n't get too comfortable . It tends to get more authentic as the night wears on .」
narration:Bill and Sookie approach the bar .

Bill:「Can I get you somethin' to drink ?」
Sookie:「Uh , please .」
narration:Longshadow , a tattooed vampire with long , black hair , shirtless but wearing a black leather vest and a necklace , is tending bar . He does not smile as he greets Bill .
Longshadow:「How 's it goin' , Bill ?」
Bill:「Very well .」
Longshadow:「I 'll say it is . ( Looking at Sookie ) This your meal for tonight ?」
Bill:「This is my friend Sookie . Sookie , Longshadow .」
Sookie:「Nice to meet you .」
narration:Longshadow stares at Sookie .
Sookie:「I 'll have a gin and tonic , please .」
Bill:「And I 'll have a bottle of O Negative .」
narration:Bill notices a young male vampire dressed in a black leather vest and shorts , looking at Bill and dancing seductively . Bill seems uneasy .
Bill:「Longshadow , Sookie here would like to know if she could ask you a few questions . Would this be acceptable ?」
narration:Sookie takes a couple of photographs from her purse and hands them to Longshadow .
Sookie:「I just have a couple of pictures I 'd love you to take a look at . You recognize either of these women ?」
Longshadow:「Yeah , I seen 'em both here before .」
Sookie:「Great , thank you . And do you also happen to remember who they hung around with ?」
Longshadow:「That 's something we do n't notice here . You wo n't either .」
Sookie:「OK , then . Thank you . I appreciate you taking the time .」
Longshadow ( holding up a vertically oriented picture , presumably of Maudette ):「This one . She wanted to die .」
Sookie:「How do you know ?」
Longshadow:「Everyone who comes here does , in their own way . That 's who we are」
narration:Longshadow hands the pictures back to Sookie , and Bill takes the O Negative and the gin and tonic , and he and Sookie leave to find a table . The young male vampire dancer has caught the eye of several other young males . Bill and Sookie sit down at an unoccupied cocktail table near a red and white " Red Wolf " neon sign . Sookie looks around , and hears a stray thought .
Bald man with mustache ( thinking ):「Oh , my God . He 's so powerful . So beautiful . The closer I step , the more beautiful he gets .」
narration:A blond male with pale skin is dressed in black and seated in a large chair on a small stage . His face is visible , but his eyes are hidden in shadow .
Bald man with mustache ( walking and looking at the blond male ; thinking ):「You can do this . Just walk up there and offer yourself to him ...」
Bill:「How 's your drink ?」
Sookie:「A gin and tonic 's pretty much a gin and tonic no matter where you drink it .」
Bill:「I know exactly what you mean .」

narration:Sookie looks at the blond male .
Sookie:「Who 's that ?」
Bill:「Oh , you noticed him , did you ?」
Sookie:「No , it 's not like that . I just ..」
Bill:「Everyone does . That 's Eric . He 's the oldest thing in this bar .」
narration:Eric is still seated in the large chair on the stage , not looking at the bald man with a mustache who is kneeling in front of him . When the bald man touches Eric 's knee , Eric kicks him away . The bald man flies halfway across the club , and lands on the floor , bleeding from a cut above his right temple . As the bald man tries to get up , he is approached by a young - looking female vampire with her short hair in a bob , and dressed in a black leather dress and long black leather gloves
Taryn:「Hi .」
narration:The bald man looks up at her in fear .
Taryn:「I 'm Taryn .」
narration:Taryn helps up the bald man and leads him away .
Bill ( to Sookie ):「Still think you 're in Disney World ?」
Scene 17:「The hospital . A doctor is examining Jason 's eyes with a flashlight . The doctor wears round , wire - framed glasses . Tara is in the examination room with them .」
Doctor:「You say that this has never happened to you before ?」
Jason:「No , sir .」
Doctor:「Well , no sign of hypertension . Huhn .」
narration:The doctor turns off the flashlight .
Doctor:「I 'm gon na ask a question , son . And I 'm gon na need you to be honest with me .」
narration:The doctor is sitting at a small desk with cabinets . His glasses are now in his left hand .
Doctor:「Have you taken any drugs today ?」
narration:Jason is shown sitting on the examination table , wearing a brown t - shirt with " Big Jim 's Tavern " on the chest . Despite being covered with a blue sheet from the waist down , Jason 's predicament is obvious .
Jason:「No . No , that 's a negative .」
Doctor:「So no marijuana , then ?」
narration:Jason shakes his head " no "
 .
Doctor:「How about cocaine ? ( Jason shakes his head " no " ) .
 Meth ?」
Jason:「No .」
Doctor:「Vampire blood ?」
Jason:「What ? Hell , that 's sick . I mean , to even suggest that is ...」
Doctor:「Yeah , yeah , you 'd never do anything like that . All right .」
narration:The doctor puts his glasses on .
Doctor:「Let 's have a look .」
narration:The doctor lifts up the blue sheet and gasps .
Doctor:「Oh , boy . Sure glad I 'm not you . That looks kind of like an eggplant , what with that color and the way it 's all swole up at the end ...」
narration:Jason pulls the blue sheet down to cover himself .
Jason:「Can you fix it ?」

Doctor:「Ordinarily we like to treat this in stages . First and least radical being an injection of anti - inflammatory drugs into the pen1s .」
Jason:「A needle in my < snip > ? That 's the least radical thing you can do ?」
Doctor:「It is , yes . But you 've progressed to the point where I do n't think you 'd benefit from that treatment at all . In my opinion , we need to aspirate .」
narration:Jason looks at the doctor with a puzzled look on his face .
Doctor:「I need to drain the blood out of your pen1s .」
narration:Jason looks scared . A baby is crying in the background . The doctor takes the cap off the needle of a syringe
Tara:「OK , I 'll leave you to it .」
narration:Tara picks up her purse , and Jason grabs her left arm , still keeping his eyes on the syringe in the doctor 's hand .
Jason:「Where are you goin' ?」
Tara:「Look , I will admit to sometimes having a sick curiosity about medical < snip > , but I ai n't that < snip > curious .」
Jason ( looking at Tara ):「Tara , stay with me ?」
Tara:「I ai n't never gon na be the same after this .」
Jason:「Uh , you 're not ?」
Doctor:「Are you ready , son ?」
narration:The doctor , seated on a stool with casters , rolls over to Jason .
Jason:「Whoa , whoa ... ain't you gon na put me out or somethin' ?」
Doctor:「Oh , I do n't think we can afford the time it would take to sedate you . Besides , without knowing what other substances you 've taken , I do n't wanna risk a drug interaction . Now , just lean on back there for me .」
narration:Jason leans back , looking at Tara .
Doctor:「There you go .」
Jason:「Tara ... ?」
Tara:「It 's ... it 's gon na be OK . You got ta breathe , though .」
narration:Jason grabs Tara 's left hand and breathes heavily .
Doctor:「All right , then . You 're gon na feel a stick in three , two ...」
narration:Jason screams .
Scene 18:「Merlotte 's at closing time . Sam is behind the bar .」
Arlene:「Sam ? I hate to ask , but would you mind walkin ' me to my car tonight ?」
Sam:「No problem . Arlene ... don't hate to ask . Not with what 's been goin' on .」
Arlene:「Well , I ai n't never been with no vampire . But still ... y'know , you ca n't be too ... safe , you know ?」
Sam:「Um , hmm . Get the lights for me , would you ?」
Arlene:「OK .」

narration:The lights are turned off . Sam puts something in his right front jeans pocket and turns off a small electronic device with a blue display screen . The camera focuses a picture of Dawn with Sam on the wall behind some glasses .
Arlene ( off - screen ):「I 'm used to livin ' in a small town and knowin ' everybody in it . You knew you were safe . It 's a new day now .」
Sam ( off - screen ):「Do n't I know it .」
Scene 19:「Fangtasia . The club is in full swing . Dance music plays in the background .」
Unknown male # 1 ( thinking ):「How come no one < snip > me ? I got a dog collar too .」
Unknown male # 2 ( thinking ):「Hey , Morticia . How 'd you like me to rip that tape off your < snip > ?」
Unknown male # 3 ( thinking ):「It ai n't gay if a guy 's a vampire , is he ?」
Unknown clean - cut youthful male ( thinking ):「I 'm gon na get in a fight if I do n't < snip > a vampire tonight .」
narration:Bill and Sookie are still sitting at the cocktail table .
Bill:「You able to pick up anything ?」
Sookie:「All anyone 's thinkin ' about here is s*x , s*x , s*x .」
Bill ( smiling ):「One need n't be telepathic to pick up on that .」
narration:Eric is still seated in his large chair on the stage . Pam whispers in his ear . Eric looks in the direction of Bill and Sookie .
Bill:「Uh , oh .」
Sookie:「Do n't say " uh - oh . " Vampires are not supposed to say " uh - oh . "」
narration:Eric and Pam are looking directly at Bill .
Bill:「It 's Eric . He 's scanned you twice . He 's goin' to summon us .」
Sookie:「He can do that ?」
Bill:「Yeah .」
narration:Eric raises his right hand and motions to Bill . Bill takes Sookie 's hand . They leave their table and join Eric , still seated , and Pam , standing next to him .
Coach Eric Taylor:「Bill Compton . It has been a while .」

Bill:「Yes , well ... I've been ...」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Mainstreaming . I heard . I see that is ...」
narration:Eric looks at Sookie .
Coach Eric Taylor:「... going well for you .」
Bill:「Yes , of course . Uh , sorry . Eric , this is my friend ...」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Sookie Stackhouse .」
Sookie:「How do you know my name ?」
Pam:「I never forget a pretty face . ( Pointing to her forehead ) You 're in my vault .」
Sookie ( to Pam ):「Great . That 's just great .」
Sookie ( to Eric ):「It 's nice to meet you .」
Eric ( apparently unmoved ):「Well , are n't you sweet .」
Sookie:「Not really .」
narration:Eric turns to Pam , and mutters something to her in an unknown language .
Pam ( also in an unknown language ):「Yah vee - INN .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Miss Stackhouse , I understand you 've been asking questions about some of my customers .」
Sookie:「Yes , I have .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「If you have anything to ask , you should ask it of me .」
Sookie:「All rightie .」

narration:Sookie hands the photos of Maudette and Dawn to Eric .
Sookie:「You recognize either one of these girls ?」
narration:Eric looks at the pictures . Pam looks at them over his shoulder .
Coach Eric Taylor:「Hmm ... (pointing to the vertically - oriented picture of Maudette ) well , this one offered herself to me . But I found her too pathetic for my attentions . Now , this one , however ... (pointing to the other photograph , presumably of Dawn ) I have tasted .」
narration:Sookie looks nervous .
Pam:「I remember 'em both .」
Sookie:「On account of the vault ?」
narration:Bill tightly grasps Sookie 's right hand with his left hand . Eric looks hard at Sookie .
Pam:「Never had either of them , though . They were n't really my type .」
Sookie:「Well ... (grabbing the photos from Eric 's hand ) thank you very much . That is all your time I need to take .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「I 'm not finished with you yet !」
narration:Eric smiles .
Coach Eric Taylor:「Please . Sit .」
narration:Sookie sits to the right of Eric and Pam . Bill remains standing in front of Eric .

Eric ( looking at Sookie ):「So , Bill . Are you quite attached to your friend ?」
Bill:「She is mine !」
Sookie:「Yes . I am his .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「What a pity . For me .」
narration:Eric scopes out Sookie .
Eric ( to Bill ):「Sit with us . We have catching up to do , you and I. It has been too long .」
Bill ( hesitantly ):「Yes .」
narration:Bill sits at Eric 's left . Eric continues to look at Sookie with some interest . Sookie begins hearing the thoughts of an undercover cop wearing a shirt with mesh sleeves and a trucker 's cap with " --something -- RIDGE LOUNGE " on the front of it . He 's with a young - looking woman .
Undercover cop ( thinking ):「Where the < snip > are they ? My backup was supposed to be here 15 minutes ago . I ca n't handle a raid on my own . These < snip > vampires ...」
Sookie:「We have to get out of here .」
Bill:「Sookie ...」
Sookie:「Eric , the cops are coming . There 's gon na be a raid ...」
narration:Eric and Pam look at Sookie .

Coach Eric Taylor:「You 're not an undercover cop , are ...」
Sookie:「I 'm not , but that man in the hat is .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Even if you 're right , we do nothing illegal here .」
narration:Sookie catches the image of the bald man with a mustache and Taryn in a bathroom stall . Taryn is cradling his head , and licking the blood from the cut on his head . She raises up her head with her mouth open , lips and chin covered with his blood , her fangs exposed .
Bald man with a mustache ( thinking ):「Go ahead and do it . Open me up . I do n't care . Make me feel something .」
narration:Taryn bites the bald man .
Sookie:「There 's a vampire named Taryn in the ladies ' room with that man you kicked before . She 's feeding on him .」
Pam:「How do you know this ?」
narration:Eric and Bill look at Sookie .
Unnamed Police Officer # 2 ( off - camera ):「Freeze !」
narration:Eric , Pam , the Undercover Cop and the young - looking woman he 's with turn their heads in the direction of the voice .
Unnamed Police Officer # 2:「Police ! Freeze ! Do n't move !」

narration:The crowd moves anyway as police officers , dressed in combat gear , enter the club .
Coach Eric Taylor:「Follow me .」
narration:Pam , Bill and Sookie follow Eric as the police conduct their raid . Eric shoves open a door at the back of the club leading outside , and all quickly exit the building . Bill picks up Sookie in his arms . Eric and Pam move away , as if they 're hovering instead of walking . And as they do , Eric turns his head to Sookie .
Coach Eric Taylor:「I enjoyed meeting you , Miss Stackhouse . You will come again .」

SCENE 1:「Bill feeds on Sookie 's blood as they make love by the fireplace in the parlor of his house .」
narration:Cut to opening credits to the tune of " Bad Things " by Jace Everett
SCENE 2:「Bill wipes the fog from his bathroom mirror . He is clearly reflected in it , as is Sookie , who is in the bathtub .」
Sookie:「Wait a minute . I thought you were supposed to be invisible in a mirror .」
Bill:「We started most of the myths about ourselves many centuries ago .」
narration:Bill walks toward the bathtub , which is surrounded by lit candles .
Bill:「If humans thought that we could n't be seen in a mirror , it was another way for us to prove that we were n't vampires . And that way , we could stay hid .」
narration:Bill steps into the bathtub .
Sookie:「So what about holy water ?」
narration:Bill splashes some bathwater with his left hand .
Bill:「Just water . )」
Sookie:「Crucifixes ?」
Bill:「Geometry .」
Sookie:「Garlic ?」
Bill:「It 's irritating , but that 's pretty much it .」
Sookie:「Whoa . I feel a little weak .」
Bill:「Of course you do . I fed on your blood . You should take some vitamin B-12 to replenish .」
Sookie:「Will I need to do that every day ?」
Bill:「If you do n't mind , yes . And no garlic .」
narration:Sookie chuckles slightly .
Sookie:「Is it always like this ?」
Bill:「No , it is not .」
Sookie:「I never thought I 'd be able ... to ...」
Bill:「I am honored that you chose me .」
narration:Sookie and Bill look into each others ' eyes . Sookie 's smile has disappeared as she experiences a flashback to her childhood .
Flashback Uncle Bartlett ( thinking ):「Her tiny little legs . Flexible and smooth .」
narration:Young Sookie is dressed in a purple top and hair - band . She looks up to see Uncle Bartlett sitting in a chair .
Uncle Bartlett:「How 's the homework comin ' ?」
narration:Young Sookie sits on a sofa opposite Uncle Bartlett . She has an open book on her lap , and a pencil in her right hand .
Young Sookie:「I hate math . Gran usually helps me .」
Uncle Bartlett:「Maybe I can help .」
Uncle Bartlett ( smiling ; thinking ):「Her skin is perfect . So soft .」
Uncle Bartlett:「Come sit on my lap so I can see you better .」
narration:Young Sookie seems unsure , but she gets up and , bringing her book and pencil with her , sits on Uncle Bartlett 's lap . He holds her around her waist as she climbs onto his lap , and he lets go of her once she 's settled . Young Sookie begins writing in her book , holding her pencil with her right hand .

Uncle Bartlett:「I 'm good at this . It 's easier than you think .」
Uncle Bartlett ( thinking ):「No hair anywhere on her body .」
narration:Uncle Bartlett pulls young Sookie 's hair away from her neck as she continues with her homework .
Uncle Bartlett ( thinking ):「Oh my .」
Uncle Bartlett:「Uncle Bartlett loves you , sweetie .」
narration:The flashback ends . Sookie and Bill are still in Bill 's bathtub .
Sookie:「It was just ... touching . Was n't nearly as bad as what happens to some girls .」
Bill:「Did you tell anyone ?」
Sookie:「Gran . She ran him off and never spoke to him again . Her own brother .」
Bill:「It was n't your fault .」
Sookie:「I know that . But ... here I am . I mean ... just had one of the most important experiences ... in a girl 's life . And ... It was so , so perfect . Great . I hate that ... I can't ... not ... think about him .」
narration:Bill pulls Sookie to him and pulls her toward him , with her back up to his chest , and holds her . They lean back .
Bill:「You think about whatever you think about . It 's OK . You 're safe with me .」
SCENE 3:「The lower half of Lafayette 's face is seen through the black - and - white viewfinder of a video camera . Dance music plays in the background .」
Lafayette:「You < snip > gon na have to be ... patient .」
narration:Lafayette steps away from the video camera . He is wearing a hooded jacket . He unzips it and removes it . He is shirtless .
Lafayette:「There 's good things comin ' your way .」
narration:POV of an observer in Lafayette 's living room . The video camera is on a tripod . Lafayette is wearing a gold lamé baseball cap . His jeans , around which is a large gold belt , sag enough to reveal a gold lamé whale tail .
Lafayette:「This ai n't Christmas morning ...」
narration:Lafayette begins dancing suggestively in front of the video camera .
Lafayette:「... and you 're all jacked up on caffeine , rippin ' off that cheap Wal - Mart paper to get your ... blender . Naw ...」
narration:Someone opens Lafayette 's front door as his back is turned .
Lafayette:「Whole lot of creativity went into this package and I want you to ...」
narration:Jason , sweaty and dressed in a gray undershirt and a dark blue ball - cap worn backwards , enters Lafayette 's living room and watches Lafayette as he unintentionally gives Jason a prime shot as he slides his pants down , revealing his butt .
Lafayette:「... enjoy .」
Jason:「Whoa !」
narration:Startled , Lafayette hikes his pants up and turns around . Jason turns and starts to leave .
Lafayette:「< snip > .」
Jason:「Back up the truck , man .」

narration:Lafayette has picked up a wine bottle by its neck with his right hand , and points it at Jason .
Lafayette:「Do n't < snip > creep , bitch . You 're < snip > creepin ' . What the < snip > you doin' here ?」
Jason:「I just need to get some more V.」
narration:Lafayette tosses the bottle aside . It does not break .
Lafayette:「I need you to run your ass out of my < snip > damn doorway , 'cause I 'm < snip > workin ' .」
Jason:「Come on , buddy . I just need a little .」
Lafayette:「I told you not to take too much .」
Jason:「Yeah , I know .」
Lafayette:「Uh , huh . And you wind up in the hospital . I said keep quiet about where it came from , and you < snip > ran off at the mouth to Tara . Then you got vamped up and < snip > threw a cop around . You ca n't handle the < snip> ... (sarcastically ) buddy !」
Jason:「Look , I 'll pay however you want . I 'll even show my wiener on your website .」
Lafayette:「You can take your little stumpy white < snip > and get the < snip > up out my joint . That 's what I want .」
narration:Jason and Lafayette stare at one another .
Jason:「And what you gon na do ? Hmm ? You gon na call the law ?」
narration:Jason sneers at Lafayette , and bends down to open the door of an end table . Lafayette grabs Jason in a full nelson and pulls him away from the end table .
Jason:「< snip > . What'cha got ?」
Lafayette:「Do n't < snip > < snip > me , < snip > . Hear me ? 'Cause I will < snip > your ass up . You get me ?」
Jason:「Yeah . OK .」
narration:Lafayette releases Jason from the full nelson .
Lafayette:「Get the < snip > up outta here .」
narration:Jason stumbles to the front door , opens it , and exits , then pops his head through the door .
Jason:「Oh , can you at least tell me where I can find some more ?」
Lafayette:「Go to the < snip > morgue , 'cause that 's where you 're goin' . Get the < snip > outta here .」
narration:Lafayette slams the door and peers through the mini - blinds over a window in the door .
Lafayette:「Bitch .」

SCENE 4:「The Old Compton House . Bill , wearing a white long - sleeved henley shirt , presses a panel on a wall that is actually a door to a small room . Sookie is with him , wearing the striped blue shirt Bill wore when he spoke to the Descendants of the Glorious Dead . He kneels down , and opens a trap door with a gold - fringed rug attached to it .」
Bill:「This is where I spend my days .」
Sookie:「Does anyone ever get in there with you ?」
Bill:「This is not a place for you .」
Sookie:「So we can never sleep beside each other .」
Bill:「No one else knows where I rest .」
narration:Bill and Sookie kiss . He steps into the empty space under the trap door and closes it .
SCENE 5:「Lettie Mae 's kitchen . Lettie Mae pours a cup of coffee into a chipped yellow mug with a crudely drawn pink pig and the word " PARTY " on it . An unknown announcer preaches the Gospel over either the TV or a radio and plays in the background for the duration of the scene .」
Unknown Announcer ( off - camera ):「What does it mean to accept Jesus as your personal savior ?」
Tara ( off - camera ):「We 'll write a check for the electric and put it in the water envelope , then stick the check for the water bill in the electric envelope .」
narration:Lettie Mae pours some vodka into the chipped coffee mug .
Unknown Announcer ( off - camera ):「Say the words " I accept Jesus as my personal savior ... "」
Tara ( off - camera ):「They 'll both think it was a mistake and call about it . Then we 'll be in the clear for another month .」
narration:Lettie Mae walks into the living room with her coffee and vodka . Tara is already sitting on the sofa .
Lettie Mae:「I need four hundred and forty - five dollars .」
Tara:「No way , Momma . We are broke .」
narration:Lettie Mae walks toward an older , cracked leather chair and sits in it . The living room , lit by the morning sun through the windows , seems clean , yet bottles of various shapes and sizes are on the coffee table . A pack of cigarettes lays next to a large ashtray with several cigarette butts in it .
Lettie Mae:「I need it to exorcise the demon that 's livin ' inside of me .」
narration:Lettie Mae sips her coffee cocktail .
Tara:「You need to do what normal people do . Stop drinkin ' and go to AA meetin 's .」
Lettie Mae:「I 'm not a group person , and the demon knows that .」
Tara:「Does the demon know you spike your coffee ? I can smell it from here .」
Lettie Mae:「I ca n't help it . The demon told me to finish off everything in the house today .」
narration:Tara stands up and walks to to the kitchen , grabs something , walks back to the living room and sits on the sofa .

Lettie Mae:「It does n't want me to get exorcised .」
Tara:「Yeah , next time you and your demon have a little chat , you can tell it to go out and get a damn job .」
Lettie Mae:「The demon has a job . Going after people that are weak but still have faith . It 's a jealous demon and it knows how close I am to Jesus . That 's why it picked me .」
Tara:「Oh , my God .」
Lettie Mae:「Do n't you dare take the Lord 's name in vain !」
narration:Lettie Mae and Tara share the silence , then Lettie Mae leans toward Tara .
Lettie Mae:「Tara , honey ... I know I was n't the best mother . I < snip > up a lot and I 'm sorry . I want to do this for the both of us . That 's why I talked her down fifty dollars . Please help me with this . Please .」
Tara:「Momma . Put down that coffee and look at me .」
Lettie Mae:「It 's the demon drinkin ' , not me .」
Tara:「Gimme that !」
narration:Tara stands up and tries to grab the coffee mug from Lettie Mae .
Lettie Mae:「What the ... ? Do n't spill it !」
Tara:「Momma !」
narration:The coffee cocktail spills onto Lettie Mae , and she sucks up whatever amount has spilled onto her .
Lettie Mae:「It 's the demon ! It 's the demon !」
SCENE 6:「The Stackhouse home . Sookie opens the front door of the house , still dressed in Bill 's striped blue shirt , and her white nightgown is draped over her left arm . She closes the door , and hears noises coming from one of the rooms . She turns toward the living room and walks in the direction of the noises , and sees Jason carrying a paper grocery sack and two silver candlesticks . He is sweaty , and seems surprised to see her .」
Sookie:「Jason !」
Jason:「< snip > .」
Sookie:「What are you doin' ?」
Jason:「Huh ? Nothin' . Nothin' .」
narration:Sookie tosses her nightgown aside . Jason walks up to Sookie and notices the fang marks on her neck .
Jason:「Huhhhh . You went ahead and did it , huh ? My own sister . Nothin' but a damn fang - banger . Now , you saved it all these years for a < snip > vampire ?」
Sookie:「Bill is a gentleman .」
Jason:「He bit you !」
Sookie:「He does n't hit me , which is more than I can say for you !」
Jason:「I tried to apologize for that , but you would n't let me !」
Sookie:「What are you doin' with that Gran 's candlesticks ?」
Jason:「I 'm just , uh ... takin ' half o ' what 's mine .」

Sookie:「It were her wedding present from her mother .」
Jason:「Yeah , well , I need the money .」
Sookie:「For what ? You have a job and a house !」
Jason:「Sook , it 's none of your business !」
Sookie:「Uhn - uh ! Gran might have spoiled you rotten , but I wo n't ! This is my house now ! You put those things down and get out !」
narration:Jason looks at Sookie and walks around her , still holding the paper sack and candlesticks . Sookie tries to take the sack from him , and the sack tears open , spilling onto the hardwood floor other silver items , and a pearl necklace .
Sookie:「You were gon na sell her jewelry ?」
narration:Empty - handed , Jason opens the front door and leaves .
SCENE 7:「A dog resembling a collie lays on the dirt in front of Sam Merlotte 's house trailer as Tara approaches off - camera .」
Tara ( off - camera ):「Hey , dawg !」
narration:Inside the trailer , Sam is trying to make some repairs underneath a counter . The screwdriver he 's using slips , cutting his hand in the process , and he bleeds .
Sam:「<snip > damn son of a bitchin ' < snip > < snip > trailer !」
narration:As Sam rocks back and forth , Tara walks in and leans over the counter , looking down toward him . He looks up at her .
Sam:「What are ... what are you doin' comin ' in here like you own the place ?」
narration:Tara walks back to the door and knocks on it .
Tara:「Better ? ( Smiling ) Or you want me to call ?」
narration:Tara walks back toward the counter .
Tara:「" Hi , Sam , it 's me , the girl you 've been < snip > . Mind if I drop by to interrupt your cussin ' spell , say ' hi ' to you and your cute little dawg ? "」
Sam:「Yeah , I do mind . Last time I saw you , you left me high and dry in some fleabag motel in the middle of the night .」
Tara:「I had to ...」
Sam:「That was n't the first time . I do n't have time for that kind of < snip > !」
Tara:「Well maybe I 'm not in that big a hurry to get somethin' goin' with my boss . Sam」
Tara ( yelling ):「Do n't act like you did n't want it !」
Sam ( yelling ):「I hired you after you got fired from every other place in town ! Now , you throw bein ' your boss in my face ? Do n't treat me like I 'm some kind of < snip > !」
Tara:「Did you honestly think I 'd sleep with you if I thought that ?」
narration:Sam comes out from under the counter and stands up . He is wearing a watch on his left wrist .

Sam:「I have no idea what the < snip > you think , Tara , but I 'll tell you what I think」
Tara:「I 'm no good at this . Sam
 Sam ... I 'm sorry . I do n't know how to be with somebody . I never ... maybe I 'm un - boyfriend - able .」
narration:Sam looks at Tara , and shakes his head .
Sam:「Aw , I 'm just in a < snip > mood .」
Tara ( off - camera ):「'Cause o ' me ? I do n't want that .」
narration:Sam walks away from the counter and from Tara toward a window .
Sam:「No , it 's not you . It 's just ... this trailer 's fallin ' down around me .」
Tara:「Well , at least you 're not livin ' wit'cher mother .」
narration:Sam turns to face Tara .
Tara:「Hey , do your folks ever ask you for money for some stupid - ass < snip > they dreamed up that you think is crazy ?」
Sam:「My family 's not close .」
narration:Sam goes beneath the counter and resumes his repairs .
Tara:「You 're lucky . You need a Robertson screwdriver .」
Sam:「How would you know somethin' like that ?」
Tara:「No daddy and a drunk mom . All the fixin ' fell to me .」
narration:Tara looks around Sam 's trailer .
Tara:「Place would look good with a ... with a little work .」
narration:Tara and Sam exchange looks . Tara 's cell phone rings , and she answers it .
Tara:「Hello ? [ pause ] Speakin ' , who is this ? [ pause ] What ?」
SCENE 8:「The bank . Lettie Mae is wearing a dress , her hair with strands sticking out in several directions , and is seated at a desk . Behind the desk is Gus , a suited older white male loan officer . On his desk is a small sign with " CONSUMER LOANS " engraved on it .」
Gus:「Well , I 'm sorry , Mizz - rizz Thornton , but it is against bank policy to extend a loan for an exorcism .」
Lettie Mae:「We both know what 's goin' on here . You wo n't give me a loan 'cause you 're a bigot .」
Gus:「Many of our clients are African - American .」
Lettie Mae:「You sayin ' that just proves my point ! I ai n't talkin ' about the color of my skin , but you is .」
Gus:「W ... well , now that is simply not the case . We have recently accepted a client who is a vampire - American .」
Lettie Mae:「I do n't care who give loans to if not Lettie Mae Thornton . You are prejudiced against me because I am a Christian .」
Gus:「What ? No , I teach Sunday school .」
narration:Lettie Mae gets up and leans over the desk .

Lettie Mae:「Uh , huh ! Then you know what I 'm talkin ' about ! The whole world is against us ! They even try and take away Christmas ! This is your chance to stop that persecution in its tracks ! Show Jesus you have a charitable nature !」
Gus:「Well , a bank is not a charity .」
Lettie Mae:「Maybe Mister Gus ... just don't ... like women , is that it ?」
narration:Lettie Mae walks behind the desk . The left shoulder of her dress has slipped down quite a bit , exposing her shoulder , as well as her left bra strap and the very upper part of her left bra cup .
Gus:「No , what ... I mean , yes ! I ...」
Lettie Mae:「Then let 's you and me work somethin' out . My landlord do n't mind if a get a little ...」
narration:Lettie Mae attempts to sit on the loan officer 's lap .
Lettie Mae:「... behind in my rent .」
narration:Two bank tellers and a customer notice Lettie Mae as Gus protests .
Gus:「Oh ... I think we need to terminate this conversation .」
Lettie Mae:「There may be snow on the mountaintop , but there 's fire in the valley !」
narration:Tara bursts in through the bank 's door .
Tara:「What the hell , momma ?」
narration:Lettie Mae walks in the direction of Tara , but walks by her toward the tellers and customers . Gus stands up .
Lettie Mae ( to the tellers and customers ; yelling ):「This white devil tried to sexual harass me ! I 'm gon na sue his narrow ass !」
narration:Lettie Mae turns to face Gus and Tara .
Gus:「I assure you , ma'am , I ...」
Tara:「What are you doin' here ?」
Lettie Mae ( yelling ):「Tryin ' to borrow money , 'cause I got a daughter who want me to live with a demon inside of me !」
Tara:「Momma , there is no demon . You just have an addiction .」
Lettie Mae ( yelling ):「I can feel it in me right now ! ( to the others in the bank ) Nobody believes me ? !」
narration:Lettie Mae faces Tara , shifting her weight from one foot to the other .
Lettie Mae ( yelling ):「I do not want to live like this no more !」
narration:Lettie Mae looks at Tara , and seems ready to cry .
Lettie Mae:「I ca n't !」
narration:Tara looks at Lettie Mae , and also seems ready to cry .
SCENE 9:「Lettie Mae 's house . Tara opens the door , and she and Lettie Mae walk inside . Lettie Mae seems unsteady on her feet .」
Lettie Mae:「I got ta go lay down . That demon is gnawin ' at me somethin' awful .」
narration:Lettie Mae and Tara walk through the hall into the kitchen .

Tara:「You need to drink some water .」
narration:Tara stops at the sink , filled with dirty dishes , as Lettie Mae continues walking . Tara heaves a soft sigh , and fills the sink with water . Tara stoops down to open the cabinet below the sink , and pulls out a large Brillo box . Tara opens the Brillo box and pulls out a scrubbing pad , then some cash .
SCENE 10:「Merlotte 's Bar & Grill . Sookie is wearing a green scarf tied around her neck , its knot on the right side of her neck , as she grabs an order from the kitchen and takes it away . Sam is behind the bar , and Lafayette is cooking as Royce , Wayne , and Chuck , the three rednecks Lafayette beat up in S01E05 , walk in . Lafayette , wearing a black bandanna on his head and a gray tank top underneath his white apron , takes notice of the three as they sit themselves down at a table . Lafayette leaves the kitchen and enters the dining area , and Sam walks up to Lafayette and stops him .」
Sam:「Oh , whoa , whoa , whoa , whoa ! I 'm payin ' you to cook , not beat on customers .」
Lafayette:「Then I want a < snip > raise .」
narration:Lafayette looks at the the three rednecks as Sam replies .
Sam:「I'll think about it , but ' til then , no trouble , OK ? We 're gettin ' busy .」
narration:Terry Bellefleur , wearing a light blue shirt and carrying a red bus tub , walks up to Sam .
Terry:「Tara called . She ai n't comin ' in .」
narration:Terry Bellefleur leaves .
Sam:「What ? Aww ... hell , we 're already short a waitress .」
narration:Sookie returns , walking quickly past Sam up to the kitchen window .
Sookie:「Do n't worry , Sam . We 'll make it work .」
narration:Sam leaves , and Lafayette turns toward Sookie .
Lafayette:「Well , < snip > damn ! Look at'chew ! All porn - a - licious . What kind of crazy mix you done and got yourself into ?」
narration:Sookie has turned to face Lafayette . She smiles broadly .
Sookie:「Ca n't I just be in a good mood without it bein ' a big deal ? It 's a pretty night outside , and I 'm glad to be enjoyin ' it with my friends .」
narration:Sookie takes another order from the window and walks past Lafayette .
Lafayette:「Um , hmm .」
narration:Sookie walks past Sam , whose head turns as Sookie walks with the food into the dining area .
 Randi Sue , dressed in a multi - colored sleeveless top and Daisy Dukes , sits by a public telephone next to a green door at Merlotte 's . She is talking with Jason , and has a bottle of Corona beer in her hand .
Jason ( off - camera ):「Yeah ?」
Randi Sue:「Hey . It 's me .」

narration:Jason , still dressed in his sweaty gray tank top and backward - worn ball - cap , walks into his house , closes the door , and walks to the kitchen .
Jason:「Hey . Who 's me ?」
Randi Sue:「Randi Sue . Like you do n't knooooooooooow .」
narration:Jason has his cell phone cradled to his right ear as he puts something in his left jeans pocket .
Jason:「Oh , hey , hey ! How 's it goin' ?」
narration:Jason washes his face in the kitchen sink .
Randi Sue ( off - camera ):「Well , I 'm at Merlotte 's ...」
narration:Randi Sue crosses her legs .
Randi Sue:「... and I 'm just waitin ' for you to come on down and , um ... buy me a drink .」
narration:Jason walks across his living room , removing his ball - cap and tossing it onto the floor . He begins to remove his shirt .
Jason:「Oh well , uh ... I ai n't comin ' to Merlotte 's tonight .」
Randi Sue:「You ai n't avoidin ' me , are you ? 'Cause that 's < snip > not gon na fly , cowboy . Not after the other night !」
narration:Jason has removed his shirt . He has a small towel draped over his left shoulder as he walks back to the kitchen .
Jason:「I know , of course not . It 's just that I 'm goin' into Shreveport tonight , that 's all .」
narration:Jason sprays anti - perspirant under his arms .
Randi Sue:「Can I come ?」
Jason:「Sure . Um , I was thinkin ' about goin' to that vampire bar . You know where it 's at ?」
narration:Jason grabs a slice of pizza from a pizza box on the breakfast bar . Randi Sue is silent as she leans forward and back at the public phone .
Jason ( off - camera ):「Hello ?」
Randi Sue:「Uh , uhn . I may not know much , but I do know better than to associate ...」
narration:Jason walks from the kitchen to the door , with the slice of pizza clenched between his teeth .
Randi Sue ( off - camera ):「... myself with people of low moral character .」
narration:Jason does not remove the pizza from his mouth as he replies .
Jason:「Uh , huh . OK .」
narration:Jason opens the door and leaves his house .
Randi Sue ( off - camera ):「I hope you enjoy spendin ' ...」
narration:Randi Sue is standing up by the public phone .
Randi Sue:「... eternity in hell !」
narration:Randi Sue grabs her purse .
Randi Sue:「< snip > !」
narration:Randi Sue hangs up the phone , adjusts the front of her top , picks up her Corona , and walks away .
 The bowl of a spoon is being heated in an open flame over the stove at Merlotte 's . A heavy black glove is worn on the hand that holds the spoon .

Lafayette ( off - camera ):「Ahh !」
narration:Lafayette takes the spoon and places it in a bowl of soup sitting in the kitchen window . The heat of the spoon produces a small sizzle , and a small puff of smoke rises from the bowl of gumbo . Terry Bellefleur , his watch on his left wrist , is next to the kitchen window , but is facing away from it . Upon hearing the sizzle , Terry Bellefleur then turns to see Lafayette at the kitchen window , removing the black glove from his right hand .
Lafayette:「Terry . Can you run that to them crackers , please ?」
narration:Terry Bellefleur approaches the kitchen window and takes the bowl away .
Terry:「Sure thing .」
Lafayette:「Thank you so much .」
narration:Arlene is placing two mugs of beer on her tray . She wears a pink watch on her left wrist .
Sookie ( off - camera ):「Do n't you look nice tonight .」
narration:Arlene looks over her left shoulder at Sookie and smiles . Sookie seems quite perky this evening .
Sookie:「I love how you did your hair .」
Arlene:「Well , thank you ! Honey ... that scarf is double cute !」
narration:Sookie smiles .
Arlene:「There 's somethin' different about you . You need to tell me what is goin' on . Is it a man ?」
Sookie:「I 'm not really comfortable discussin ' my personal business . Especially not here .」
Arlene:「Well , everyone else 's personal life is open to you .」
narration:Arlene chuckles . Sookie 's broad smile is downgraded to just a smile .
Arlene:「I forgive you 'cause I know you ca n't help that , but it does make being your friend kinda lop - sided .」
narration:Arlene 's jaw drops .
Arlene:「Please tell me it was Sam , not that vampire .」
narration:Sookie smiles broadly again .
Sookie:「Yes , it was Bill ! And I think I might be in love with him . Oh , do n't tell anybody , OK ?」
narration:Royce has been burned by the heated spoon in his gumbo . He drops the spoon onto the floor .
Royce:「Ahh ! < snip > damn it ! < snip > !」
narration:Lafayette , watching from the kitchen window , does not appear to gloat .
Lafayette:「Sook , order up .」
narration:Sookie walks to the kitchen window . Arlene takes the tray with the beers , and walks over to René , who is sitting at the bar , resting his head on his right hand , staring upward .
Arlene:「Sookie has been with that vampire !」
narration:René looks briefly at Arlene , then returns his attention upward .
René:「Aw ... that 's jus ' bar talk .」
Arlene:「She told me herself .」

narration:Sam , behind the bar , looks at Arlene and Arlene looks at Sam .
Arlene:「Oh my Lord ! Suppose she gets pregnant . How in the world can she nurse a baby with fangs ?」
narration:Sam looks upset .
René:「You jus ' be her friend . She need one now more than ever .」
narration:Sookie is delivering an order to a customer at one of her tables .
Sookie:「There you go . You 're gon na love that okra special . It 's so fresh , it 'll hop right off your plate !」
narration:Sookie turns and walks away from the table and Sam approaches her .
Sookie:「Oh , do n't go anywhere . I need two more pitchers of Bud .」
narration:Sam rips the green scarf from Sookie 's neck , exposing her fang marks .
Sookie:「Hey , you keep your hands to yourself , Sam Merlotte !」
narration:Sookie hits Sam with her open hand and pushes him away from her .
Sookie:「You have no right to touch me !」
Sam:「You 're a damn fool , you know that ?」
narration:Lafayette watches the scene between Sookie and Sam from the kitchen window as diners , including Chuck , watch from their seats .
Sookie:「What I do on my own time is no concern of yours ... (looking at the diners) ... or any of y' all 's . Yes ! I had s*x with Bill , and since every one of y' all 's too chicken to ask , it was great ! I enjoyed every second of it . And if you do n't like that , you can just fire me !」
narration:Sookie slams her tray onto Sam 's chest and walks away
 .
SCENE 11:「The parking lot of Fangtasia . A few people talk to one another near a parked car . Jason walks quickly to the door . Outside the door is a red velvet rope , separating him from Pam , dressed in black , her arms akimbo , her hair down around her shoulders . Jason is dressed in a dark blue short - sleeved shirt , unbuttoned halfway , and looks around nervously before speaking to Pam .」
Jason ( quietly ):「Hey .」
Pam:「Your momma know you 're out in the big city ?」
Jason:「Well , my momma 's dead .」
Pam ( unmoved ):「So am I. Let me see some ID .」
narration:Jason pulls out his ID and hands it to Pam . She looks at it , and looks somewhat quizzically at Jason , still keeping her cool exterior .
Pam:「Jason Stackhouse from Bon Temps ?」
Jason:「Uh , huh .」
Pam:「You related to Sookie by any chance ?」
Jason:「Uh , yeah . She 's my sister . Well , how do you know her ?」
Pam:「She stands out . Do you ?」
Jason ( nervously ):「Uh , no . ( smiling shyly ) Maybe . In other ... ways .」
narration:Pam gives the ID back to Jason .

Pam:「Why are you here ?」
Jason ( looking around nervously ):「Why ? Well , you know , I was ... I heard it was cool . I wanted to ... check it out , see what 's up . I 'm one of those open - minded kind of guys . Yeah .」
narration:Jason seems to be caught in a trance as Pam stares into his eyes and glamours him .
Pam:「Tell me why you came here .」
Jason:「I want some vampire blood .」
narration:Pam raises her left eyebrow .
Jason:「What time do you get off work ?」
Pam:「You came for my blood ?」
narration:Pam chuckles slightly .
Pam:「Yeah , you 're right . You 're nothin' like your sister .」
narration:Jason seems puzzled as Pam 's glamouring ends and she exposes her fangs to him .
Pam:「Go on in .」
narration:Jason walks around Pam to the door .
Pam ( in Jason 's right ear as he passes her ):「And good luck gettin ' out .」
SCENE 12:「Uncle Bartlett is putting some trash into a garbage can behind his old , white house at night . Insects chirp in the background . A single light illuminates the area where the garbage cans are , at the foot of a wheelchair ramp leading up to the back door . With effort , he turns his wheelchair around and slowly pushes himself up the ramp . On the wall at the left of the top of the ramp seems to be a sign with " NO SMOKING " in red letters . Uncle Bartlett continues pushing himself , and he looks up and sees Bill standing before him , and stops .」
Uncle Bartlett:「I do n't keep cash in the house .」
narration:A full moon is visible behind Bill as he stares at Uncle Bartlett .
Bill:「Oh , I 'm not here for money ...」
narration:Uncle Bartlett allows his wheelchair to roll backwards to escape from Bill , but Bill is already behind him , and stops Uncle Bartlett 's wheelchair .
Bill:「... I 'm here for Sookie !」
narration:Bill exposes his fangs and he bends around to bite Uncle Bartlett from behind .
SCENE 13:「Tara and Lettie Mae are walking on an unlit road at night .」
Tara:「Damn ! I 'm gettin ' eaten alive out here !」
Lettie Mae:「You want to meet the devil , you wait at the crossroad .」
Tara:「Yeah . That was a mile back .」
Lettie Mae:「For Miss Jeanette , you got ta go past where the devil 's at .」
Tara:「That is the biggest load of < snip > I ever heard . You 're gettin ' as bad off as Lafayette and his juju .」
Lettie Mae:「My poor sister . I pity havin' to raise a sexual deviant .」
narration:A dark figure , hunched over , leaning on a cane , comes out from the bushes along the road , to the left of Tara and Lettie Mae .

Lettie Mae:「That runs in families , you know , like demons .」
Old Crone:「You showed up .」
narration:Tara and Lettie Mae stop walking , and turn their heads toward the voice . They see an old crone holding a lit lantern in her right hand .
Old Crone:「I figured that demon o ' yours would n't let'cha .」
narration:Tara and Lettie Mae walk toward the old crone .
Old Crone:「You must be Tara . I 'm Miss Jeanette . You ready ? Fully prepared , body and soul , for this exorcism ?」
narration:Tara and Lettie Mae stop within a few feet of Miss Jeanette .
Lettie Mae:「I ai n't ate anything all day , like you said .」
Miss Jeanette:「Have you made your peace ?」
Lettie Mae:「Is it gon na hurt ?」
Miss Jeanette:「Of course it 's gon na hurt . It 's like childbirth . Except the demon do n't wanna come out . And it ain'cher body that could get ripped up . It 's your soul .」
Tara:「Uh ...」
Miss Jeanette:「In olden days , folks paid my grandmama usin ' tobacco and livestock . But today it 's cash . In advance .」
narration:Tara takes money from her purse and hands it to Miss Jeanette , who counts it , and puts it in her purse . Miss Jeanette 's hair is closely cropped to the shape of her head .
Miss Jeanette:「That demon ... will not inhabit you after tonight .」
Tara:「Let 's get this < snip > over wit ' .」
narration:Miss Jeanette stares at Tara , then turns around , lifts the lantern , and walks into the woods . Tara and Lettie Mae follow her . Insects chirp loudly as Miss Jeanette shows them to an old bus , the inside of which is dark , illuminated only by candles . Tara enters first , looks around and notices various bottles , plates , and plants inside the bus , as well as an antique metal bathtub , and some shelves with jars . She also sees a cot with a pillow and blanket , on which rest six small stones . Tara turns around to see Lettie Mae has entered the bus , with Miss Jeanette behind her .
Miss Jeanette:「Lettie Mae , you 're gon na need to undress now .」
narration:Lettie Mae hands her purse to Tara and begins to undress .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
SCENE 14:「Merlotte 's . Sookie has regained her perkiness , but not her scarf . She is talking to Lafayette at the kitchen window .」
Sookie:「It felt like ... it felt like every single care or worry or sadness I ever had was just ... flowin ' out of me into him . And , yeah , that hurt at first , but ... then when I relaxed , it did n't hurt at all .」
Lafayette:「I was always too scared to let 'em bite me . I do n't know , Sook . I just think that , when there 's blood involved , a line been crossed .」

Sookie:「Oh , I definitely crossed a line , but ... I 'm glad I did .」
narration:Sookie takes into her hands an order from the window .
Lafayette:「Well , you go on ahead , hooker , with your bad ass ! Good for you ! It ai n't possible to live unless you crossin ' somebody 's line .」
narration:Sookie chuckles and leaves the kitchen window with the food order .
Lafayette:「Skank .」
SCENE 15:「Fangtasia . Eric sits in his large chair on the stage as his customers enjoy their evening . Eric is looking at his Blackberry as a blond woman in a black shirt approaches him .」
Blond Woman:「Excuse me ?」
narration:Eric looks up from his Blackberry .
Blond Woman:「May I take a picture of you ?」
narration:A male vampire with tattoos on his arms and long black hair is behind and to the right of the blond woman . Eric puts down the small devise and faces the blond woman . He spreads the fingers of his hands and touches the fingertips to one another in front of him , and exposes his fangs .
Coach Eric Taylor:「You may .」

narration:The blond woman takes a pink camera phone from her purse , opens it , and points it at Eric to take his picture . With lightning speed , the long - haired vampire grabs the blond woman 's camera phone and smashes it to pieces against a nearby table to her left , glaring at the blond woman , not exposing his fangs .
Long - haired Vampire:「No pictures !」
Blond Woman:「He said I could take it .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「I did not say you could keep it .」

SCENE 1:「Four charred coffins are beside one another outside of the house burned by Royce , Wayne , and Chuck . One of the coffins is partly opened . Various emergency personnel perform their duties as Sookie looks at the scene from a short distance . She is approached by Sheriff Bud Dearborn .」
Sheriff Dearborn:「Sookie , are you okay ? You want some water ?」
Sookie:「Four ?」
narration:Sookie turns to face Detective Andy Bellefleur .
Sookie:「You 're sure you found four bodies ?」
Andy Bellefleur:「We should n't even be tellin ' ya this .」
Sookie:「Andy , not now ! Not with me .」
Andy Bellefleur:「[ sigh ] There 's four sets of remains inside four coffins .」
Sookie:「Oh , my God !」
narration:Sookie starts toward the house , but is pulled away by Andy .
Andy Bellefleur:「We ca n't let you go in there !」
Sookie:「Andy , if you do n't take your hands off me right now , I swear to God , I will kill you !」
narration:Sookie breaks free of Andy 's grip , and runs up the small hill toward the house , but is met by an unidentified young man in a blue jacket with something illegible printed in white letters on the back of it . There is another man present , wearing a black ball - cap and a black vest with " CORONER " in silver / white letters on the back of his .
Unidentified Young Man In Blue Jacket:「No , no , sweetheart , you do n't wanna come up here ...」
narration:The unidentified young man looks at the contents of one of the burned coffins . There are no bones , only a slurry of slightly bubbling blood .
Unidentified Young Man In Blue Jacket:「Jiminy Christmas . That 's what happens to vampires ?」
Unidentified Man in Ball - cap:「( off - camera )」
narration:Sookie looks down at the blood soup with a worried look on her face .
Unidentified Man in Ball - cap ( to the young man in the blue jacket ):「I hope you skipped breakfast . [ chuckle ]」
Unidentified Man In Blue Jacket:「Sookie , did Bud send you up here to make an ID ? 'Cause ...」
narration:Sookie lets out a small gasp , turns around , and runs away , passing Andy and Bud .
Andy Bellefleur:「Sookie , you okay ?」
narration:Cut to opening credits to the tune of " Bad Things " by Jace Everett
SCENE 2:「Sookie walks into her house from the back door , still in her Merlotte 's uniform . She sits at the breakfast table , opens her cell phone , and dials a number .」
Bill 's pre - recorded voice greeting:「Bill Compton .」
Generic pre - recorded female voice mail message:「To leave a voice message , press " one " or just wait ...」

narration:Sookie closes the cell phone and stares into space , then notices a set of muddy footprints on the kitchen floor . With her shoes now removed , Sookie is on her hands and knees as she scrubs the footprints off the floor , and has a flashback from the previous week , when she scrubbed the blood off the floor after Gran 's murder . Fighting the painful memory , she continues to scrub , her face tensing up as she hurls the washrag across the room .
Sookie:「< snip > !」
SCENE 3:「Behind the Thornton house . Lettie Mae is taking out the garbage . Putting on a robe , Tara approaches her .」
Tara:「Momma , it 's not even eight !」
Lettie Mae:「Good morning , baby . Did I wake you ? I 'm almost done . Just a couple more loads .」
narration:Tara bends over and picks up a liquor bottle .
Tara:「Well , these are half full !」
Lettie Mae:「Useless to me . Just fuel for demon fire .」
narration:Lettie Mae takes the bottle from Tara and tosses it in a box with other bottles .
Lettie Mae:「The bottle kept him alive for forty years .」
narration:Lettie Mae places the box in a garbage can .
Lettie Mae:「As long as I keep the stuff out of my house , he ai n't never coming back .」
Tara:「Huh . Well , let 's see how long you can keep it up .」
narration:Lettie Mae places the lid on the garbage can .
Lettie Mae:「Forever . Got ta be . I 'm down to my last chance .」
narration:Tara looks at Lettie Mae quizzically .
Tara:「You did n't have a drink today ?」
Lettie Mae:「Uh - uhn . Did n't need one . Did n't even want one .」
narration:Tara gets close to Lettie Mae 's face and sniffs her breath . Tara 's eyes open wider .
Tara:「Is that maple syrup ?」
Lettie Mae:「Check the kitchen . I made hoecakes .」
narration:Tara 's jaw opens . She turns and walks toward the kitchen door at the side of the house , and Lettie Mae follows her . There is a bicycle leaning against the house , as well as two white pre - formed plastic chairs . A stairway leads from the outside to an upper floor of the house . Tara opens the door to the kitchen and they walk inside . The morning sun streams into the small , white kitchen , which seems cluttered , but looks quite clean , and the breakfast table is set .
Tara:「Are you serious ? I have n't had hoecakes since ...」
Lettie Mae:「Since your Grandma - ma was alive . I always could make 'em . Just never did . The demon never let me .」
narration:Tara sits down and pierces one of the hoecakes with a fork and nibbles the corner of it as it drips with syrupy goodness .

Tara:「Mmm ! You made these with bacon grease .」
Lettie Mae:「It 's the only way !」
narration:Tara smiles and places more hoecakes on the plate before her . Lettie Mae allows a short , happy laugh .
Lettie Mae:「You eat , baby girl !」
narration:Lettie Mae kisses Tara on top of the head .
Lettie Mae:「I got me some more devil juice to take out .」
narration:Lettie Mae leaves the kitchen and picks up some more bottles along the way , as Tara looks up and watches in astonishment .
SCENE 4:「Jason 's bedroom . He and Amy are topless , laying on their backs in his bed .」
Jason:「< snip > damn . You ... huh . You are not like anybody I ever met !」
Amy:「I was just gon na say the same thing . Jesus .」
Jason:「It felt like the whole world came together . Me , you , the bed , the house . We were all one big giant ...」
Amy:「Organism .」
narration:Jason stretches and smiles broadly .
Jason:「Yeah ! Mine was huge !」
narration:Amy chuckles .
Jason:「I never knew vamp blood could do somethin' like this to ya .」
Amy:「You know what ? Neither did I. I mean ...」
narration:Amy turns over to face Jason .
Amy:「... I 've had V partners before , but this was ... on a totally different planet . You 're an extraordinary being .」
narration:Jason looks confused at Amy .
Jason:「Well , what 's that supposed to mean ?」
Amy:「I mean , in some ways , we barely know each other , right ? But you felt that . Uh , tell me that that was n't just me , and we tapped into each other .」
narration:Jason raises himself up .
Jason:「Oh , no , no , no . I felt it . We tapped .」
Amy:「There 's something old and good and wise deep down in you . I have to know that person .」
Jason:「Come on , cut it out . Nobody who knows me has ever called me wise .」
Amy:「Then nobody really knows you .」
narration:Jason 's smile leaves his face . He turns over and cups his hands over his face as Amy puts her left arm over his shoulders .
Amy:「Are you blushing ?」
narration:Jason lifts his face up from his hands and smiles briefly as he looks at Amy , then becomes serious .
Jason:「I do n't want you to go .」
narration:Jason and Amy both smile as they look at one another .
Amy:「Well , I was planning on just burning through , but if you have a place for me to crash ...」
narration:Amy pulls Jason on top of her .
Amy:「... then for you , I might just stick around ...」
narration:Jason begins kissing Amy .
Jason:「Stay .」
Amy:「... for a little bit .」

Jason:「Stay with me . I do n't wanna ever leave this bed . Let 's just screw and do V until we starve .」
narration:Amy chuckles as Jason kisses her again .
Amy:「Sure . But , I mean , let 's hold off on the screwing . I 'm a respectable girl .」
narration:Jason stops kissing Amy .
Jason:「What ? Oh , did I hurt you ?」
narration:Jason moves off of Amy .
Jason:「I 'm sorry if I got carried away , it was just so amazing .」
Amy:「No , no , Jason . We did n't have s*x .」
Jason:「Well , what do you call what we been doin' for the past six hours ?」
Amy:「We were together on V , and deeper than I 've ever felt with anybody ever before . But physically , we barely touched .」
narration:Jason looks at Amy with a slight grin on his face .
Jason:「No ? !」
Amy:「No , I promise ...」
Jason:「No , that 's not possible !」
Amy:「Look ...」
narration:Amy lifts up the black satin sheet .
Amy:「Panties still on .」
Jason:「Whoa ! Whoa , whoa !」
narration:Jason looks in utter amazement at Amy , then places the sheet back on her .
Jason:「What ... the < snip > ?」
Amy:「I told you . It 's better than s*x .」
narration:Jason looks stunned as he lays his head on Amy 's chest and giggles .
SCENE 5:「Sookie 's kitchen . Sookie , wearing a blue shirt , is on her knees with her head in the stove as Tara comes to the back door and runs to Sookie .」
Tara:「Jesus Christ , what the hell are you doing ?」
narration:Tara pulls Sookie out of the stove . Sookie is wearing a paper filter over her nose and mouth . She does not look happy .
Sookie:「Stop with the J.C. !」
narration:Sookie removes the filter .
Sookie:「I 'm cleanin ' ! What does it look like ? Watch your feet ! I just waxed !」
Tara:「I hope you mean the floor .」
narration:Sookie sighs and walks to the sink .
Sookie:「Can I help you ? I 'm up to my elbows in Easy - Off .」
Tara:「My momma made me hoecakes this morning .」
Sookie:「So ?」
Tara:「She cooked me breakfast !」
narration:Sookie walks back to the stove .
Tara:「When 's the last time you saw my momma lift a finger before noon for anything besides Mad Dog 20/20 ?」
narration:Sookie stares at Tara .
Tara:「We went into the woods to get a four hundred forty - five dollar hoodoo exorcism last night , and you do not wanna get me started on that !」

Sookie:「My grandmother 's dead ! At least you got someone to make breakfast for you . You ever stop thinkin ' about what 's happenin ' with others before you barge in on them ?」
Tara:「Sorry . I did n't mean ...」
narration:Sookie turns to clean the top of the stove , and Tara notices the bite on Sookie 's neck .
Tara:「Oh , my God , are those fang marks ?」
narration:Sookie holds the collar of her shirt away from her neck to expose the marks fully .
Sookie:「So what ? It means someone cared for me when everyone else left me high and dry !」
Tara:「No wonder you 're crazy . You let a vampire make a meal of you !」
Sookie ( yelling ):「Why am I the only person that does n't think vampires are monsters ?」
Tara ( yelling ):「They drink our blood ! What 's to say Bill wo n't leave you once he 's had his fill ?」
narration:Sookie gets in Tara 's face .
Sookie ( yelling ):「Do you have any idea what I 've been through today ? A friend would ask !」
Tara:「Do n't tell me how to be your friend . I 'm the only one you got , < snip > damn it !」
Sookie ( whispering ):「Lord 's name in vain .」
Tara ( yelling ):「Oh , < snip > off !」
Sookie ( shouting ):「Get out of my house ! I 've gotten very good at losing people lately , and you are only making it easier for me !」
Tara ( yelling ):「Bitch , I do n't even wanna be here ! If you are hell - bent on bein ' alone in this world , I ai n't gon na stop you !」
narration:Tara turns and leaves the house . Sookie slams the oven door , which bounces open before she turns to slam it shut . She places her hands on her head as she closes her eyes .
SCENE 6:「Jason 's kitchen . Shirtless , but wearing jeans , Jason takes a pizza box from the refrigerator and takes it with him to the living room , where Amy , wearing her dress , is admiring some curios in a wood display rack on the wall over the sofa .」
Jason:「Huhn . Man , I wanna not have s*x with you again so bad , you do n't even know .」
Amy:「I think I got some idea .」
narration:Amy walks away .
Amy:「But that V that we did was the last I had .」
narration:Jason plops himself into the sofa , pizza box still in hand .
Jason:「Where do we score some more ?」
narration:Amy looks at one of Jason 's Cd 's , near a large console TV set with a smaller , newer flat - screen TV on top of it .
Amy:「When we need more , we 'll go out and get it .」
narration:Jason looks despondent , but Amy gives him a reassuring smile .

Amy:「Do n't be greedy . We 'll be okay for a while . Just eat your breakfast .」
narration:Jason opens the pizza box . Half a pizza is in it .
Jason:「You sure you do n't want some ? Pepperoni and sausage .」
Amy:「No , thank you . I only eat organic . The cleaner my body is , the more intensely I feel the V.」
narration:Jason eats a slice of pizza .
Amy:「Uh , why do you have two televisions in the same room ?」
Jason:「The bottom one 's busted . I just keep it 'cause it was my parents ' .」
Amy:「Can I ask you how they died ?」
Jason:「Yeah . I do n't like to talk about it .」
Amy:「Okay .」
Jason:「It was a flash flood . They were caught on the bridge down by the parish road and got swept out in the river . My little sister and I ... were staying at our Gran 's while they went out . They did n't think I could look after Sookie by myself , even though I was almost eleven . Sometimes I think , if I was a better kid , they would n't have had to drop us off at Gran 's . Then they would n't have been on the bridge at the exact point when ...」
narration:Jason puts the slice of cold pizza in the pizza box .
Amy:「So your grandma raised you after that ?」
Jason:「Yeah , I moved back here ...」
narration:Jason closes the pizza box and sits up .
Jason:「... when I was eighteen , even though Gran woulda rather kept an eye on me . Then , she passed too . Last week .」
Amy:「Oh , God ! I 'm so sorry .」
narration:Jason 's head is in his hands .
Jason:「< snip > damn . I do n't mean to be spillin ' . I never do this .」
Amy:「You never talk about things with anybody ? You do n't talk to your sister ?」
Jason:「Least of all her . She brings out the worst in me . We had this big fight after Gran died and I hit her . I tell you」
Amy:「That 's ridiculous .」
narration:Amy kneels beside Jason and places her hand on his left shoulder .
Amy:「I 've seen who you are inside . I 've been there .」
narration:Amy gently turns Jason 's head toward her with her left hand .
Amy:「And you 're good . Jason . Do you hear me ?」
narration:Amy wipes a tear from Jason 's right eye . She kisses his lips , and he kisses her and smiles .
SCENE 7:「The tailgate of a pickup truck is opened , revealing an alligator head on a box , between a box of Rolling Rock beer and another box .」
Terry:「She 's a beauty .」
narration:Terry Bellefleur lifts the alligator head from the truck , parked near a red Dumpster . Terry wears his watch on his left wrist . Sam Merlotte stands beside the truck .

Terry:「You want it for your office ?」
narration:Terry walks with the alligator head toward the back entrance of Merlotte 's .
Sam:「Nah .」
narration:Sam takes the box of Rolling Rock from the truck and follows Terry .
Sam:「We 'll put it over the bar . Drunks like talkin ' to the animals .」
narration:Terry puts down the alligator head in a green pre - formed plastic chair , and pulls out something from underneath his shirt collar .
Terry:「Hey ! Check it out ! ' Possum < snip > .」
narration:Terry holds out a dried , slender forked object , tied to a cord around his neck , and shows it to Sam .
Sam:「Ohhh ! Where 'd you get that ?」
Terry:「Shot one last week . I was gon na stuff it but I left it back out , and it got to rainin ' , then three days later , ai n't nothing left but ' possum sludge and bones . I saved this , though . ' Possums have a two - pronged pen1s .」
Sam:「Uh , huh .」
Terry:「It 's supposed to bring good luck .」
Sam:「Uh , Terry , let 's keep that story between us . The girls might get the wrong idea .」
narration:Sam walks away as Terry tucks the severed member underneath his shirt and follows Sam to the truck .
Terry:「Hey Sam ? What was you doin' out this morning ?」
Sam:「Why ?」
Terry:「You would n't happened to have been runnin ' through the woods without no clothes on , would ya ?」
Sam:「[ chuckles ] Why would I do that ?」
Terry:「I do n't know . That 's why I 'm askin ' .」
narration:Sam and Terry unload more boxes from the truck and walk to the back door of Merlotte 's .
Terry:「I was out fishin ' and I coulda swore I saw you blazin ' butt - nekkid through the trees .」
narration:Sam sets his box down on the stoop in front of the back door .
Sam:「Nah , it was n't me . I ... was working on my car .」
Terry:「It looked an awful lot like you . Except you wear clothes .」
narration:Sam and Terry chuckle . Sam unloads another box from the truck .
Terry:「I do n't know . Maybe I 'm seein ' things again . Except , usually when I see people who ai n't there , it 's ... it 's ...」
Sam:「The insurgents .」
Terry:「Yeah , yeah . Only this fella I saw , he did n't look like no insurgent .」
Sam:「But you said he was runnin ' , though ? Plenty of cover in the trees . How could you tell for sure ? And , hey ... I believe you saw what you saw . I just do n't know why anyone would be runnin ' naked through the woods in broad daylight .」

Terry:「Yeah . [ chuckle ] Maybe you 're right . < snip > . I hate bein ' this way , Sam .」
narration:Sam pats Terry on his left arm .
Sam:「It 's all right , buddy . Come on .」
narration:Sam and Terry walk to the back door of Merlotte 's .
Sam:「We 're a long way from Fallujah .」
SCENE 8:「Nighttime . It is raining . Sookie sits with a quilt over her shoulders on the front porch of her house . She walks inside and strikes a match to light a small red candle in the darkened house . She is wearing a yellow and white dress with spaghetti straps . She picks up some flowers , and places the lit candle in a window sill . The rain has stopped . She walks through the cemetery and kneels in front of Bill 's grave marker and cries . She stands up , and walks away . She is barefooted . As she walks , a hand reaches up from the ground , grabs her leg , and pulls her down . She screams and tries to escape . A naked male figure is pulling her toward his spot in the ground .」
Bill:「Sookie !」
narration:Sookie looks at Bill . Despite the fact he is covered in dirt , they kiss and make love on the ground in the cemetery . The sound of Bill 's fangs being exposed is heard .
Sookie:「No . Not the neck .」
narration:Bill 's fangs are exposed . He looks at her and bites her on the shoulder instead .
SCENE 9:「Merlotte 's Bar & Grill at lunch .」
Arlene:「Where the hell is Sookie today ?」
narration:Terry Bellefleur puts one last plate on a tray , and Arlene takes the tray to her table . Lafayette is also cooking in the kitchen .
Arlene:「Here you go , honey . Sorry it took so long .」
narration:Jason and Amy walk into Merlotte 's through the front door . Amy looks around the place , which is packed with customers .
Amy:「Intense . All these animals on the wall , it 's like a natural history museum .」
Jason:「Huh ? I never noticed 'em .」
Amy:「How could you not ? Every one of these animals lived a life full of experiences that we ca n't even imagine .」
Jason:「Does it weird you out ? We could go someplace else .」
Amy:「No , no . I mean , everyone has to eat , right ? We 're all links on the universal food chain . See ? Squirrel eats nuts ...」
narration:Amy points to a squirrel skin , mounted on a post by the bar .
Amy:「... snake eats the squirrel ...」
narration:We see a non - living snake , either of the stuffed variety or the rubber variety , over some glasses behind the bar .
Amy:「... gator eats the snake .」
narration:The alligator head that Terry Bellefleur gave to Sam is above the bar , over a sign that reads " NO CHECKS CASHED . "

Amy:「And we can eat pretty much anything we want . It 's the circle of life .」
Jason:「Jesus Christ . I wanna lick your mind .」
Amy:「Let 's have lunch first .」
narration:Amy and Jason look for a table , passing Arlene at the bar , whose back is turned to them . A busboy wears a dark green Merlotte 's t - shirt
 in contrast to the white Merlotte 's t - shirts worn by the wait staff
 as he walks to the kitchen window .
Terry:「Order up !」
narration:The busboy walks into the service area , where Sam , also wearing a dark green Merlotte 's t - shirt , is working . Sookie , dressed in her Merlotte 's uniform , runs in from the back .
Sookie:「I 'm sorry , I 'm sorry , I 'm sorry . I know I 'm late .」
narration:Sam turns to Sookie .
Sam:「Sookie , listen」
narration:Sookie can barely contain herself .
Sookie:「He 's alive ! )」
Sam:「What ?」
Sookie:「Bill . They said there were four bodies , and I thought for sure Bill was one of 'em .」
Sam:「He was n't ?」
Sookie:「No ! He 's fine . In fact ... he 's wonderful !」
Sam:「Well , that must be quite a relief for you .」
Sookie:「You have no idea ! Anyways , no need to worry about me . I 'm great !」
narration:Sookie walks to the bar , where Arlene is writing something on one of her tickets .
Arlene:「Sweetie , where you been ? I 'm up to my eyeballs in tickets .」
Sookie:「Arlene , you look so beautiful today .」
narration:Arlene looks quizzically at Sookie .
Sookie:「I love you , even if you are a bigot sometimes .」
narration:Sookie hugs Arlene . Arlene seems confused . Sookie runs off to another area of the restaurant , giggling , as Sam walks behind the bar .
Arlene:「What 's with her ?」
Sam:「Bill 's alive .」
Arlene:「What ? But I thought ...」
Sam:「I know . So did I.」
narration:We see Terry Bellefleur behind the kitchen window , with quite a number of orders to be delivered .
Terry:「Order up !」
narration:Sookie is talking to Hoyt Fortenberry and René Lenier , seated at a booth across from one another . Both are dressed in maroon t - shirts .
Sookie ( to Terry ):「I 'm comin ' . Hold your horses .」
Sookie ( to Hoyt and René ):「He got my message that something bad might be brewin ' , so he figured he spent the night in the graveyard .」
Hoyt:「Does n't it get cold out there ?」

Sookie:「No , he was in the ground . So , after I could n't find him at his place , then hearin ' about those four bodies at that burnt - up house , you can imagine what I was goin' through .」
Hoyt:「Oh , I mean , that must have been somethin' terrible .」
Sookie:「Oh , you do n't know .」
René:「Sookie , they said there was only t 're e vampires that come in here da udder night . Who ... who 's the fourth body ?」
Sookie:「Some poor fang - banger , they 're saying now . Some vampires like to keep a human around for s*x ... and blood .」
narration:Sookie smiles broadly .
Sookie:「I 'll get your Cokes .」
narration:Sookie turns and walks to the kitchen window . The orders that had piled up in the window are gone .
Sookie:「I thought you said " order up " .」
Terry:「I did . New girl took 'em .」
Sookie:「New girl ?」
narration:Sookie walks to the dining area and looks around .
Amy ( off - camera ):「BLT , cheeseburger , well - done , fried egg on white , hot wings ...」
narration:Sookie sees Amy serving tables .
Amy:「... smoked sausage , tuna melt , and the chicken - fried steak must be for you . Thank you . ( yelling ) We 've got a four - top open .」
narration:Jason smiles as he walks up to Sookie , who 's at the bar . Sookie does n't look happy .
Jason:「Is n't she something ?」
Sookie:「She 's with you ?」
Jason:「I know you 're < snip > at me , but ... I really want you to like her .」
narration:Amy approaches Jason and Sookie .
Amy:「Sorry about that . You looked really swamped and the natives were gettin ' restless so ... You 're Jason 's sister , right ? It 's ... I've heard so much about you .」
narration:Arlene has joined the small group , looking less happy than Sookie does .
Arlene:「Who are you ?」
Amy:「My name 's Amy . Amy Burley . I 'm with Jason .」
Jason:「With me .」
narration:Jason smiles slightly and puts his right arm around Amy 's shoulders .
Amy:「And you must be Arlene with the beautiful red hair . It 's so nice to meet you .」
Arlene:「How 'd you know all the table numbers ?」
Amy:「Well , I waited tables in college , so I just assumed clockwise . You know , table one , two , three , four , five . I think the guys at table five like you , 'cause they left you a really nice tip .」
narration:Amy hands the tip to Arlene . Arlene takes the tip , then turns around to Sam .
Arlene:「Sam , I think we might have found a replacement for Dawn .」

Sookie ( looking at Jason ):「Looks like you did too .」
narration:Sookie walks away , as Jason kisses Amy on her top of her head .
SCENE 10:「Behind the Thornton home . Church bells ring in the background . Freshly - washed laundry is hanging on clotheslines as Tara walks outside and looks at the scene .」
Tara:「What the ... ?」
narration:Lettie Mae walks into the backyard , wearing a nice dress and a hat . She is accompanied by Mabel Simpkins , who is dressed similarly .
Lettie Mae:「Do n't you touch that , sweetie pie . Momma'll take care of the laundry .」
Mabel Simpkins:「Oh , my goodness ! Lettie Mae ! Ai n't she the spittin ' image of you ? ! ( to Tara ) That 's a compliment !」
Lettie Mae:「Tara Mae , you remember Mabel Simpkins , do n't you ?」
Tara:「Yeah . From the church .」
Mabel Simpkins:「That 's right . And why do n't we see your smiling face there no more ?」
Tara:「Uh , 'cause I stopped goin' .」
Mabel Simpkins:「Oh , well . It 's never too late to come back . Lettie Mae left us for two years and we welcomed her back today like she had never gone .」
Lettie Mae:「I heard the call ! The good Lord said , " Lettie Mae , you been away too long . Your church needs you . "」
Mabel Simpkins:「Oh , you should have heard her testify . The entire congregation was filled with the Spirit .」
Tara:「Yeah , I bet she was full of it .」
Mabel Simpkins:「Your momma 's an inspiration to us all .」
Lettie Mae:「Glory to God !」
Mabel Simpkins:「Amen ! ( to Tara ) Girl , why do n't you come to Bible group on Tuesday ? Got plenty of nice young men and fruit punch .」
Lettie Mae:「A little religion do you a world of good , baby girl .」
Tara:「< snip > . Are you even listening to what you 're sayin ' ? You can lie to yourself and everyone else but when you go to bed , you are just as < snip > up and miserable as I am . And goin' to church and wearing a crazy - ass hat ai n't gon na make you a better person .」
narration:Tara walks away .
Lettie Mae:「She got a demon in her .」
Mabel Simpkins:「My granddaughter had a demon in her . They everywhere !」
SCENE 11:「Merlotte 's . Arlene is on the phone behind the bar .」
Arlene:「No , sure ... I understand ... no , it 's no problem ... okay , baby . Bye - bye .」
narration:Arlene hangs up the phone and heaves a sigh , and turns to Terry .

Arlene:「Every time I get a night off , my babysitter falls through on me .」
narration:Terry walks up to Arlene .
Terry:「You know , I like kids , Arlene . Doughnuts , too .」
Arlene:「Maybe . If you brought a lady friend along . Lisa likes a female in the house .」
narration:Terry gets a bit closer to Arlene .
Terry:「I ai n't had a lady friend since I come home .」
Arlene:「Well , that 's some bad luck for you , I guess . Did something happen there that you been ... keepin ' to yourself ? 'Cause you could talk to me , you know , if you 're wantin ' to .」
Terry:「No , I ... I ... I'd just as soon sit here and listen at you . I like your voice .」
narration:Arlene smiles .
Terry:「And your clavicles .」
narration:Arlene giggles .
SCENE 12:「Sookie and Amy are cleaning tables in the dining area .」
Sookie:「I 've been admiring your necklace all day .」
Amy:「Oh , thanks , it 's a lariat . I made it .」
Sookie:「You make jewelry ?」
Amy:「It 's a easy way to earn extra money . I can make you one , if you want .」
Sookie:「Thanks , but I do n't think my boyfriend much likes silver .」
narration:Sookie moves her bus tub to another table .
Sookie:「You know my brother 's a dog , do n't you ?」
Amy:「I 'm sorry ?」
Sookie:「He 's all charm and smiles in the beginning , but the second he gets tired o ' you , he 's gon na stop callin ' . Before you know it , he 's off with some other floozy . Not ... not that you are one . But trust me , it 's as regular as the seasons . You seem like a sweet girl . I do n't want you to get hurt .」
Amy:「You know ... I do n't think Jason 's realized even half of what he 's going to be . I would n't be so quick to judge . You might be surprised at what he 's capable of .」
narration:Amy picks up her bus tub and walks away as Arlene walks up to Sookie .
Arlene:「Hey , Sookie . I 've been meanin ' to talk to you .」
Sookie:「What 's the matter ?」
Arlene:「I 've just been a mess lately . You know , with the kids and the double shifts and René and everything , it 's been awful hard , and I 've probably said some things that I do n't mean , but that 's the pressure talkin ' . I love you like my own sister . And you know that , right ?」
Sookie:「I appreciate that . Thank you .」
narration:Arlene and Sookie hug each other .

Sookie:「And sure , I 'll babysit your kids tonight .」
Arlene:「I ... I did n't ...」
Sookie:「I heard you talkin ' to Terry . I 'm a better choice .」
Arlene:「We 'll drop 'em off at eight . René 's taking me to Ruston to see that Oak Ridge Boys tribute band .」
Sookie:「Ooh . Fun !」
narration:Arlene leaves .
SCENE 13:「Merlotte 's , that evening . Sam is pouring a bottle of Tru」
Hoyt:「You look mighty pretty tonight , Tara . That 's a nice color on you .」
Tara:「< snip > you .」
narration:Tara walks to the bar .
Hoyt:「I 'm sorry , w ... was that sexist ?」
narration:Tara is at the bar . Sam is not happy .
Sam:「May I have a word with you ? In my office .」
narration:Tara follows Sam to his office .
Tara:「Hey , I get it . You said yourself hirin ' me might not work out . I < snip > people off . If you wanna fire me , fire me . I totally understand .」
Sam:「No . You and I are the only ones who get it .」
narration:Sam grabs Tara by her arms and pushes her up against the closed door of his office .
Sam:「It 's everybody else who 's < snip > themselves up .」
narration:Sam kisses Tara on the lips , and she kisses him .
SCENE 14:「Sookie and Bill are in her bed . Her head is on his left shoulder . He plays with her hair and looks directly upward .」
Sookie:「Does n't it get old ... for you ? I mean , you 've been doin' it for over a hundred years . Does n't it get predictable ?」
Bill:「Not with you , it does n't . You 're entirely different . And the beauty and the tragedy of it is ... is that you do n't know just how different you are .」
Sookie:「Please tell me if I 'm doin' somethin' wrong .」
Bill:「There 's nothin' more natural than the act of makin ' love . Who am I to try to change what comes naturally to you ?」
Sookie:「But if you could change somethin' ...」
narration:Bill raises his head and looks at Sookie .
Bill:「I would n't change a thing .」
narration:Bill kisses Sookie .
Sookie:「What 's it like to sleep in the ground ?」
narration:Sookie giggles quietly .
Bill:「It 's not exactly comfortable . But it is safe . Which , if I recall , is what the three voice mails required of me that night .」
narration:The doorbell chimes , and Sookie gasps .
Sookie:「Oh , crap . Arlene . I forgot , I told her I 'd babysit the kids .」

Bill:「Shall I go ?」
Sookie:「No . Stay . It 'll be good for her . You can put some pants on , though .」
narration:Sookie kisses Bill and gets out of bed to answer the door . She is wearing a pink nightie . Bill remains in bed . Sookie goes downstairs , opens the front door , and greets Arlene , her daughter Lisa , her son Coby , and René . Coby is playing with a Nintendo Game Boy .
Sookie:「Hi !」
Arlene:「Sookie . What 's wrong ? What took you so long ?」
Sookie:「I was out back in the yard .」
Coby:「In your nightie ?」
Bill:「The cat got out .」
narration:Bill is dressed , and walks into view .
Bill:「Made friends with a squirrel .」
Lisa:「Mommy , look , it 's a vampire !」
narration:Lisa and Coby smile and run to Bill , but are stopped by Arlene .
Arlene:「Uh , Sookie . You did n't mention ... that you had company .」
Sookie:「I did n't think I had to .」
Arlene:「Well , I got a right to know who 's lookin ' after my children .」
Sookie:「Well , here we are . Is there a problem ?」
narration:Lisa and Coby continue to look at Bill . Lisa smiles , while Coby looks in wonderment .
René:「Ahh , take it easy , chère . Mr. Compton raised a couple of them little ones himself if I remember , yeah ?」
Bill:「That 's quite right .」
narration:Arlene removes two silver bangle bracelets , and places them on Lisa 's and Coby 's wrists . Coby 's Game Boy is firmly closed .
Arlene:「Keep these on you , you hear ? And , um ... stay close to your Aunt Sookie .」
narration:Coby is now playing with his Game Boy .
Sookie:「They 'll be fine , I promise . ( to Lisa and Coby ) Who wants pizza ?」
Coby:「Me !」
Lisa:「Me !」
Sookie:「That 's good , 'cause that 's what we 're havin' .」
narration:Sookie reaches out to Coby and Lisa and they go up to her .
René:「You can eat pizza ?」
Bill:「Well , unfortunately , no , but I understand it 's delicious .」
narration:Bill smiles . Sookie giggles .
SCENE 15:「Sam Merlotte 's trailer , that same evening . Sam is sharing some time with Tara in his bedroom .」
Tara:「You know what 's good about s*x that people never mention ?」
Sam:「Hmm .」
Tara:「For anywhere between five minutes to an hour , you forget your own < snip > life .」
Sam:「Hmm . Only if it 's good . If it 's not , it reminds you just how bad your life really is .」

Tara:「Then I guess you 're pretty good .」
Sam:「Thanks , you 're not bad yourself .」
Tara:「Easy on the praise , honey .」
Sam:「What ? No , you 're good .」
Tara:「But ?」
Sam:「Nothin' . It 's good . You 're good .」
Tara:「Uh - huh . What am I doin' wrong ?」
Sam:「Nothin' . I ... it 's ... it 's so minor , it does n't matter .」
Tara:「Sam , what is it ?」
Sam:「Do n't do this to me .」
Tara:「Spit it out !」
Sam:「Sometimes ... you grunt .」
Tara:「I what ?」
Sam:「It 's ... it 's natural . Nothin' to get worked up over . It 's just a sound .」
Tara:「A gruntin ' sound ? Like a farm animal ?」
Sam:「No . No . It 's ... it 's ... it 's ... it 's athletic . Like tennis players when they serve .」
Tara:「You mean like Serena ?」
narration:Sam opens his mouth to say something , but the words just are n't there .
Tara:「What , because I 'm Black , I sound like Serena Williams ?」
Sam:「That 's not what I said !」
Tara:「You racist son of a bitch !」
narration:Tara gets out of Sam 's bed .
Sam:「How can I be racist ? I just had s*x with you !」
Tara:「You < snip > !」
narration:Tara puts on her top .
Tara:「Why 'd you have to go and take the only good ten minutes of my entire day and ruin it like that ?」
Sam:「Well , I think it was more than ten minutes .」
narration:Tara puts on her pants .
Tara:「Oh , < snip > you ! < snip > you all !」
Sam:「All who ?」
Tara:「Everybody . < snip > everybody !」
narration:Sam looks puzzled , and a door slams .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
SCENE 16:「The kitchen of Sookie 's house . Sookie , Coby and Lisa are sitting at the table . Ice cream glasses are in front of Coby , Lisa , and Sookie , as is a tub of Blue Bell ice cream . Bill brings a white plastic tub of Cool Whip to them .」
Bill:「Whipped cream !」
narration:Bill spoons a dollop of Cool Whip onto their ice cream .
Coby:「Yeah !」
Lisa:「Me , too !」
Bill:「I hope you can finish this before your mother comes back .」
Coby:「No problem . I ate a whole jar of mayonnaise once .」
Lisa:「I had to watch .」
Coby:「Bill , how come you ca n't have ice cream ?」

Bill:「Hmm ... you might say that I 'm ... lactose intolerant .」
Coby:「Just like my Aunt Fern . Except she do n't tolerate Mexicans .」
Lisa:「Aunt Sookie , is Bill your boyfriend ?」
Sookie:「Well ...」
narration:Sookie turns to Bill , who sits beside her now .
Sookie:「... would you say that you 're my boyfriend ?」
Bill:「Well , I suppose I 'd have to ask permission from Coby and Lisa . ( to Coby and Lisa ) Would it be all right with you if I was Aunt Sookie 's boyfriend ?」
Lisa:「Do you buy her flowers ?」
Bill:「Why , no , I ... I have n't yet .」
Lisa:「You better . René buys flowers for momma all the time .」
Bill:「Then I will have to mend my ways .」
Lisa:「You do that . Then we 'll talk .」
Coby:「Can we see your fangs ?」
Sookie:「I do n't think that 's gon na be possible .」
Bill:「Why , certainly .」
narration:Bill , still seated , turns away , then turns to face Coby and Lisa with a set of obviously fake vampire fangs with fake blood on them , his hands up in the air with the fingers bent slightly , as if he 's about to grab them .
Bill:「Urrrrrrrrrrrr !」
narration:Coby , Lisa , and Sookie laugh .
SCENE 17:「Nighttime . A truck is stopped on a dark road , and its headlights are turned off .」
René ( off - camera ):「Aww . I t'ink we got a flat tire .」
narration:inside the truck , we see René in the driver 's seat , and Arlene in the passenger seat .
Arlene:「Come on , baby , the kids are waitin ' on us . I do n't wanna leave them with that vampire longer than I have to .」
René:「Okay , okay , okay , okay . I 'm gettin ' to it , woman .」
narration:René leaves the truck and closes the door .
René:「Bébé !」
Arlene:「What ?」
René:「Pass me that Maglite , will you ?」
narration:Arlene opens the glove compartment and retrieves a silver Maglite . She opens the door , steps onto the dark road , and walks to the other side of the truck , trying to turn on the Maglite , which does not turn on . René , squatting beside one of the wheels , waits for her .
Arlene:「Crap , it 's burnt out .」
René:「Are you sho ' ? You better check it . I just put some fresh batt'ries in there .」

narration:Arlene unscrews the cap on the tail end of the Maglite . Something falls to the ground as the cap is removed . Arlene looks around her for the object , but René has found it already . He moves closer to her , holding the object , a ring , up to her .
René:「Arlene Fowler ?」
narration:Arlene gasps .
René:「Would you do me da honor ... o ' bein ' my wife ?」
narration:Arlene cries and smiles as René slides the ring onto her finger . As he does so , we see that he wears his watch on his left wrist . After the ring is on Arlene 's finger , René stands up , and they kiss .
Arlene:「Why did n't you say anything at the Red Lobster ?」
narration:Arlene and René hug each other .
SCENE 18:「Sookie 's kitchen . Arlene , René , Bill and Sookie are sitting at the table . Arlene is showing Sookie her engagement ring .」
Arlene:「I know I 've done it four other times , but it never gets old !」
Sookie:「Oh , I 'm so thrilled for you two !」
Arlene:「Would you be a bridesmaid for me again ?」
Sookie:「Why , of course ! You hardly have to ask !」
Arlene:「Oh , honey , I love you so much !」
narration:Arlene and Sookie hug each other and giggle .
René ( to Bill ):「Maybe you two are next , huh ?」
narration:Sookie and Arlene stop giggling .
René:「Well , I mean , when it becomes legal .」
narration:Lisa walks into the kitchen , rubbing her eyes .
Lisa:「Mommy , what 's going on ?」
narration:Arlene turns to Lisa .
Arlene:「Sweetie , you 're gon na be my flower girl !」
narration:Arlene and Lisa squeal with delight . Lisa smiles broadly and hugs Arlene . Sookie smiles , as does Bill .
SCENE 19:「Morning at the Stackhouse home . The sun shines brightly and birds chirp . In the kitchen , Bill sits at the table , reading the newspaper , The Bon Temps Bugle . The table is set , and breakfast is ready . Sookie walks in .」
Bill:「Mornin ' , dear .」
Sookie:「Bill . Did you make all this ?」
Bill:「I borrowed some of your grandmother 's old recipes ...」
narration:Bill and Sookie kiss .
Bill:「... but the handiwork is all mine .」
narration:Bill returns to his newspaper . Sookie walks around him , looking at the meal he has prepared .
Sookie:「I do n't even know where to begin .」
Bill:「Well , I would start with the biscuits . [ points to biscuits ] They just came out of the oven .」

narration:The morning sun streams into the kitchen from the window above the kitchen sink , directly behind Bill . He smiles at Sookie as she sits down , and Bill looks up from his newspaper .
Bill:「Gon na be clear skies all day .」
Sookie:「Wait , Bill , it 's light out .」
narration:Bill turns to the window behind him . His face is immediately burned .
Bill:「Yes , I suppose it is .」
narration:Bill turns to face Sookie , and ignites in flames .
 Sookie 's eyes open , and she jumps up . She is in bed . Daylight streams through her bedroom window . A black cat meows beside her .
SCENE 20:「Coroner Mike Spencer 's office . Mike is on the phone , and looks as if he 's been crying .」
Mike Spencer:「Yeah ... yeah , okay ... No . No , I 'll make the call ... His momma passed a couple years back , but he had some family in Kentucky .」
narration:Sheriff Bud Dearborn sits in the passenger seat of a patrol car , talking on his cell phone . Detective Andy Bellefleur sits in the driver 's seat . The patrol car is parked .
Sheriff Dearborn:「His dentist confirmed the match just a bit ago . I thought you should be the first to know .」
narration:Mike becomes more visibly emotional .
Mike Spencer:「God dang it . Why Neil ? He was such a quiet kid . I 'd have never thought he 'd get mixed up with fangers . Damn . To have nothing left of you to ID but teeth .」
Sheriff Dearborn:「You wanna maybe let one of the homes in Monroe handle him ?」
Mike Spencer:「No . No . He worked for me . I owe it to him . Gimme a couple hours , I 'll come over and claim him , okay ?」
Sheriff Dearborn:「Okay . Thanks , Mike .」
Mike Spencer:「Yeah .」
narration:Mike hangs up the phone . He wears a wedding band on his left ring finger .
Andy Bellefleur:「Pretty tore up ?」
Sheriff Dearborn:「Blind - sided him . Had no idea Neil was a fang - banger .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Jesus , Bud . The kid was creepy . What nineteen - year - old goes to work for a funeral home ?」
Sheriff Dearborn:「I worked in a slaughterhouse when I was fifteen . They made me clean chitlins .」
narration:Andy looks away from Bud .
Andy Bellefleur:「Speakin ' of freaks ...」
narration:Sam is walking nearby . Bud and Andy exit the patrol car . It is revealed that their patrol car has been parked outside Merlotte 's Bar & Grill . Sookie 's yellow Honda is parked nearby . Sam walks toward the back of the restaurant , followed by Bud and Andy .
Sam ( off - camera ):「And that 's it .」
narration:Sam is sitting on the arm of his sofa in his trailer as Sheriff Dearborn and Andy Bellefleur question him .
Sam:「I got no control over what people do after they leave the bar .」

Sheriff Dearborn:「You remember anyone being unusually angry over what those vampires did to your bar ?」
Sam:「Yeah . Everyone . We were all angry . Heck , you might as well interrogate the whole town . Between you and me , I would n't be heartbroken if you did n't find who did it . You know what I 'm sayin ' ? Old Mrs. Stackhouse , on the other hand , now that 's a real tragedy . Her and Dawn and Maudette Pickens , one right after the other . You fellas got any leads on that ?」
Andy Bellefleur:「We 're workin ' on some right now .」
Sam:「Good . I 'm pullin ' for you guys .」
Sheriff Dearborn:「Okay . You remember anything else , we 'll be havin' a burger inside .」
narration:Bud puts an unlit cigar in his mouth .
Sheriff Dearborn:「Come on , Andy .」
narration:Bud and Andy turn and walk to the door . Bud opens the door , and he and Andy go outside . Neither one closes the door .
Andy Bellefleur ( off - camera ):「Hey , Sam !」
narration:Andy walks back inside of Sam 's trailer .
Andy Bellefleur:「One other thing . You recall spendin ' any time out in the woods lately ?」
Sam:「Yeah . Some . But you knew that already , did n't you ?」
narration:Andy folds his arms .
Sam:「Oh , Andy . If ... if I tell you ... you have to keep this a secret . All right , nobody in town knows . But , uh ... I come from a family of naturists .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Like bird watchers ?」
Sam:「No . No , not naturalists . Naturists . Naturists believe in a ... a freer , clothing - optional kind of lifestyle .」
Andy Bellefleur:「You 're a nudist ?」
Sam:「No . No . Good Lord , no . But my folks were , I 'm embarrassed to say . They spent most of their lives at a nudist colony .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Oh , yeah ? Around here ?」
Sam:「No , in Texas , just outside Beaumont . But , uh ... ever since they passed , I honor their memory once a year by takin ' a run through the woods the way they used to . It 's ... it 's my private way of mourning . I 'm sorry if anybody had to see it .」
Andy Bellefleur:「Hrmph .」
SCENE 21:「Merlotte 's Bar & Grill . Lafayette puts some green vegetables on a plate with some fried food . Amy , now wearing a white Merlotte 's t - shirt , stands at the kitchen window loading plates onto a tray . Lafayette is giggling quietly as he takes the plate to Amy . Tara is in the kitchen with him .」
Tara:「What ?」
Lafayette:「Hooker , you done got took .」
narration:Amy take her tray away . Lafayette walks over to Tara .

Lafayette:「That was no damn exorcism . That was a straight - up con job !」
Tara:「You know what the < snip > up thing is ?」
Lafayette:「What ?」
Tara:「It worked ! It was like aliens beamed down and switched out her brain or somethin' .」
Lafayette:「Then that was fo ' fo'ty - five well - spent . < snip > . Happy dance .」
narration:Lafayette does a little dance as he pours liquid
 from what looks like a Patrón tequila bottle
 into a coffee mug .
Lafayette:「You should be glad to be rid of that ... that 's your momma . I ai n't gon na say it .」
Tara:「< snip > that . All that < snip > you 've built up your whole life does n't go away because a hoodoo woman moves some rocks around on your belly .」
Lafayette:「I thought you said it worked .」
Tara:「I thought you said it was a con job .」
Lafayette:「Heifer , it 's not a con job if you got your money 's worth . Hell . And who knows ? It might do you some good too .」
Tara:「I do n't have another four forty - five to waste on < snip > .」
Lafayette:「You just sayin ' that 'cause you do n't understand it .」
narration:Lafayette places the mug next to the kitchen stove .
Lafayette:「And trust me , this world is filled with things we will never understand . Compared to a lifetime of Zoloft , four forty - five 's a bargain .」
narration:Lafayette resumes cooking .
 In another part of Merlotte 's
 possibly Sam 's office
 , Sookie is taking a vitamin as Sam walks in .
Sam:「Hey , what'cha doin' ?」
Sookie:「Vitamin .」
Sam:「I 've never seen you take a vitamin before .」
Sookie:「So what ? You 've never seen me put on deodorant or wash my hair or feed my cat , have you ? But I do all those things . I do n't need a permission slip from you .」
narration:Sookie chuckles slightly and walks away . Sam walks to where she was standing . He picks up a bottle of vitamin B-12 and crushes it against the stone fireplace .
Sam:「Christ .」
narration:Sam sits down , and begins picking up the broken pieces .
SCENE 22:「Afternoon . Amy is leaving Merlotte 's , walking quickly . She approaches Jason 's truck . Jason is in the driver 's seat . She gets in on the passenger side .」
Jason:「Good day ?」
narration:Amy closes the passenger door and heaves a sigh , not looking at Jason .
Amy:「I need V.」
narration:Amy turns to Jason and he looks puzzled at her .
Jason:「What ? I thought you said you did n't need any again until ... you needed it again .」

Amy:「Well , I need it . Okay ?」
Jason:「Okay .」
Amy:「Look me in the eye . Tell me that you do n't want it too .」
Jason:「Yeah . Of course I do . But Lafayette wo n't sell it to me .」
narration:Amy looks at Jason and she rocks slightly .
SCENE 23:「The Old Compton House . Crickets chirp as Bill opens the door and walks inside with clothes in plastic bags on hangers . He closes the door , and notices lights are on in the foyer . Soft music plays in the background now . He hangs the clothes on the newel of the staircase and , with lightning speed , he runs upstairs . He creeps along the hallway , following the sounds of music , which is louder now . He sees light through the crack between a door and the floor , and opens the door , which leads to his bathroom . Eric is relaxing in Bill 's bathtub . A portable stereo is beside the tub , and candles are lit , as is a small lamp beside the door .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「I texted you three times . Why did n't you reply ?」
Bill:「I hate usin ' the number keys to type . What are you listenin ' to ?」

Coach Eric Taylor:「From my younger days . It 's really quite beautiful if you know Old Swedish . I have a favor to ask of you .」
Bill:「A favor or an order ?」
narration:Bill folds his arms . Eric turns his head slowly to Bill .
Coach Eric Taylor:「Depends on how you look at it . Honestly , did you think you could keep her to yourself ?」
SCENE 24:「Nighttime . Jason and Amy are in Jason 's truck , parked outside someone 's home . A dog barks in the background .」
Jason:「It feels a little like stalkin , do n't it ?」
narration:Amy rocks slightly in her seat . She seems nervous .
Amy:「It 's the most natural thing in the world . The hunt . People used to do this all the time , y'know , before we got complacent with cloned beef and pre - packaged dinners .」
narration:The house door opens and Lafayette exits . He is dressed in a tank top , jeans , and ball cap , and carrying a green and white plastic beverage cooler . He walks to his car , a convertible with its top down . He places the cooler in the back seat , takes off his ball cap , gets into the driver 's seat , starts the car , and drives away as Jason and Amy watch from their distance . Jason prepares to start the truck .

Amy:「Headlights off .」
Jason:「You done this before ?」
Amy:「Stay five lengths behind , ten if we get on the parish road .」
narration:Elsewhere , an older , slightly overweight Caucasian man walks downstairs and lights a couple of candles in the living room . Soft elevator - type music plays in the background . A knock is heard from his front door . He opens the door .
Lafayette:「Well , hey there , sweetness . You ready to party ?」
narration:The older man smiles , revealing fangs .
Lafayette:「I 'll take that as a yes .」
narration:Lafayette runs his finger along the vampire 's chest as he walks inside .
Lafayette:「Nasty .」
narration:A " whoosh " sound accompanies the closing of the front door . In the kitchen , the vampire uncorks a bottle of wine as Lafayette turns down the volume on the vampire 's stereo . The vampire brings the opened bottle and a single glass into the living room .
Vampire:「I bought this ' specially for you .」
narration:Lafayette sits down .
Vampire:「I remember you said you go for merlot .」
Lafayette:「I said I worked at Merlotte 's . But whatever . Po ' me some anyhow .」
narration:The vampire walks to where Lafayette is sitting , places the glass on the coffee table , and pours some merlot into it . Lafayette 's green and white cooler is also on the coffee table . The vampire picks up the glass and offers it to Lafayette , who sniffs it and looks at it , but does not immediately drink it . The vampire sits beside Lafayette , and nuzzles against Lafayette 's bare shoulder . Lafayette sips the wine and , with his head turned , discreetly spits the wine back into the glass . The vampire continues his amorous overtures , but Lafayette nudges his elbow softly into the vampire 's abdomen .
Lafayette:「All right , baby . Eddie juice first ...」
narration:The vampire kisses Lafayette 's shoulder .
Lafayette:「... then we play .」
narration:Eddie sits back on the sofa as Lafayette removes his ball cap , opens the cooler , and withdraws a syringe from it . Eddie offers his right arm . Lafayette licks and kisses the area on Eddie 's arm where the needle will be stuck , and the vein suddenly pops into view directly underneath Eddie 's skin .
Lafayette:「Oh , there it is .」
narration:Lafayette sticks the needle into the vein , and Eddie lets out a small gasp .
Eddie:「I always look forward to Monday nights . First Heroes , then ... you .」
Lafayette:「Eddie , what fun is it bein ' a vampire if all you do is watch TV ?」
Eddie:「Well , I like TV .」
Lafayette:「Umm . I 'm just sayin ' you should try the bars . I know you like gettin ' laid too .」
Eddie:「Why should I go to the bars ? I got this .」

narration:Eddie looks toward the ceiling and inhales deeply as Lafayette 's attention is focused on the syringe in Eddie 's arm .
Eddie:「You like me , do n't you , Lafayette ?」
narration:Lafayette removes a vial of Eddie 's blood from the syringe .
Lafayette:「Sure , I like you .」
Eddie:「I mean ... even if I was n't helping out with the blood , you 'd still ... want me , right ?」
Lafayette:「Why you even got to aks me that ?」
Eddie:「I 'd hate to think it 's just ... bidness for you when you come over .」
Lafayette:「Of course not . What , you think I fool around with all my business associates ?」
narration:Eddie chuckles quietly .
Lafayette:「Ah , there we go .」
narration:Lafayette removes another vial of Eddie 's blood , then removes the needle from Eddie 's arm . He places the vial and the needle in the green and white cooler .
Lafayette:「Now show me what a dirty old vampire you is .」
narration:Eddie and Lafayette kiss one another on the lips .
Eddie:「I want you so bad . I ache .」
narration:Lafayette grabs Eddie 's hair , then stands up . Lafayette holds Eddie 's hands and pulls Eddie up off the sofa .
Lafayette:「Well , come on , baby . I take care of you .」
SCENE 25:「A car pulls into the parking lot of Fangtasia . A sign reads CLOSED on the black leather - padded front door , but the red neon FANGTASIA sign is lit .」
Bill ( off - camera ):「You said you wanted to go out tonight .」
narration:Inside the car , Bill is in the driver 's seat , with Sookie as his passenger . She is holding some red and white roses .
Sookie:「I did not mean Fangtasia ! I mean , really , all those pathetic people who come here looking for s*x with vampires ?」
narration:Bill turns and looks directly at Sookie .
Bill:「I know . It 's despicable .」
Sookie:「You know what I mean ! So , what , five , ten minutes ?」
Bill:「As long as Eric requires us .」
Sookie:「You mean as long as he requires me . Did n't even have the decency to ask me himself .」
Bill:「You are mine . He did n't need to ask your permission .」
Sookie:「He can not check me out like a library book !」
Bill:「Unfortunately , Sookie , he can . Eric is sheriff of Area Five .」
Sookie:「Sheriff ?」
Bill:「It 's a position of great power among our kind . We do not wanna anger him ! As long as the requests are reasonable , we should accede to his wishes .」
narration:Sookie looks away from Bill , and sniffs the roses . She puts the roses down , and she and Bill get out of the car .

Sookie:「I had this crazy dream this morning . We were sitting , eating breakfast , and all of a sudden the sunlight set you on fire .」
narration:Bill is quiet for a moment .
Bill:「It would n't happen quite that way . The sunlight would severely weaken me and eventually , of course , I would die . But I would n't burst into flames . Not right away , at least .」
narration:Bill walks away .
Sookie:「So I guess we 'll never have breakfast together .」
SCENE 26:「The exterior of Miss Jeanette 's bus in the woods . Crickets chirp and an owl hoots in the background . It is night . Tara walks up from behind some trees and slowly approaches the bus . A twig snaps . Startled , Tara turns her head to find Miss Jeanette standing directly behind her .」
Miss Jeanette:「I knew you 'd come .」
narration:Miss Jeanette has a small smile on her face . Tara continues to stare at her .
Miss Jeanette:「Let 's go inside .」
narration:Tara turns and steps into the bus , as Miss Jeanette follows .
SCENE 27:「Andy Bellefleur sits at his computer , talking on the phone .」
Naturist Community Employee:「No , I 'm quite certain .」
narration:Cut to a shot of the office of the Naturist Community . A nude male stands behind a conveniently - opened file cabinet drawer and goes through some files as he talks on the phone with Andy . Behind him are various naturists , visible through the office window .
Naturist Community Employee:「We keep extensive records here . All the way back to , uh ... 1958 . Never had anybody by the name of Merlotte here .」
Andy Bellefleur:「And you 're sure you 're the only nudist colony in the Beaumont area ?」
Naturist Community Employee:「Naturist community . We 're the first , finest and only clothin'-optional sanctuary in all of Jefferson County .」
Andy Bellefleur:「All right . Thanks very much .」
Naturist Community Employee:「You come visit us , you hear ? Got a barbecue every month .」
narration:Andy hangs up the phone , and looks puzzled .
SCENE 28:「The bar at Fangtasia . Sookie sits at a cocktail table as Pam leans against the bar , her arms folded . Eric walks into view .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Pam , Longshadow and I are partners in this club .」

narration:Eric circles Sookie as he walks . Bill is leaning against the bar on the opposite side of the well from Pam .
Coach Eric Taylor:「And we recently noticed that sixty - thousand dollars has gone missing from our books . And Bruce ...」
narration:Eric stops walking . The camera moves down to reveal Bruce , a bespectacled older Caucasian male . He looks quite scared .
Coach Eric Taylor:「... is our accountant . Perhaps you can start by listening to him .」
narration:Bruce is sitting at the same cocktail table as Sookie .
Sookie:「He 's not saying anything .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Do n't be coy .」
narration:Longshadow , behind the bar , passes his hand over the open flame of a cigarette lighter .
Coach Eric Taylor:「It 's humbling enough to turn to a human for assistance . We know what you can do .」
Sookie:「And I know what you can do too . Why do n't you just glamour him ?」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Now , do n't you think we might have tried everything before summoning you ?」
narration:Sookie stares at Eric .
Coach Eric Taylor:「So ... it would be a great favor to me and to Mr. Compton if you help us .」
Sookie:「If I find out who did it , then what ?」

Longshadow:「We 'll turn that person over to police and let the authorities handle it from there .」
Sookie ( facing Longshadow ):「Hundreds of years old and you 're still a terrible liar . Come on .」
narration:Sookie turns around in her chair to face Eric .
Sookie:「I 'll make you a deal」
Coach Eric Taylor:「All right . Why not ?」
narration:Sookie grabs Bruce 's hand and listens to his thoughts .
Bruce ( thinking ):「< snip > , what 's this crazy bitch doing ? Why did I agree to work for vampires ? < snip > damn it , I knew it was a bad idea . I 've been nothin' but straight with these < snip > s. Got ta be a < snip > idiot to steal from them . Jesus Christ , I was the one who reported it !」
narration:Sookie stops listening to Bruce 's thoughts .
Sookie:「Bruce , it 's okay . Take a deep breath . Did you steal their money ?」
Bruce:「No , no . You got ta believe me . I did n't do it . I swear to ...」
Sookie:「Shhhh . Do you know who did ?」
Bruce:「No .」

Bruce ( thinking ):「No , I wish . I would turn that < snip > in . Who was it ? Could n't have been Ginger . She 's too < snip > dumb . Although she 's hot as < snip > . I 'd < snip > her if I could .」
narration:Sookie looks up to Eric .
Sookie:「He 's tellin ' the truth .」
Longshadow ( to Eric ):「You trust the skinny human to clear the fat one ?」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Bring the next one in .」
narration:A look of relief falls over Bruce 's face , and he cries . A wedding band is visible on his left ring finger .
SCENE 29:「Outside of Eddie 's house at night . Amy listens to Johnny Cash 's song " The Fourth Man In The Fire " in Jason 's truck as Lafayette leaves Eddie 's townhouse . Lafayette places the cooler in the back seat of his car ( an ivory - colored Mercedes ) , takes off his ball cap , gets into the car , and drives away . Jason 's truck turns the corner and pulls into Eddie 's driveway . Jason cuts off the engine as Amy rummages through her purse .」
Jason:「You got cash ? Are you buying ?」

Amy:「Just remember your lines , that 's all I need from you . I 'll handle the rest .」
Jason:「Hey , I 'm not gon na have to have s*x with him , am I ?」
Amy:「I said that I will handle it .」
narration:Amy glares at Jason .
Jason:「Okay .」
narration:Jason slumps down in the driver 's seat as Amy removes her lariat necklace and wraps it around her fist .
Jason:「Okay , I know you probably do n't think I 'm all that smart , but I do know that that vampire can kill us both ! Before we even get in the door .」
narration:Amy looks at Jason .
Jason:「You 'll handle it .」
narration:Jason looks at Amy , and looks downward , as if he 's noticed something in her hand .
Jason:「What the hell is that ?」
narration:Inside the townhouse , Eddie sits in his recliner and watches TV . The Rev. Steve Newlin of the Fellowship of the Sun Church is speaking .
Steve Newlin:「While the wing nuts on the left keep pushing their so - called vampire - rights legislation , I 'm more concerned with basic human rights . The right for our sons and daughters to go to school without fear of molestation by a bloodthirsty predator in the playground or in the classroom . Someone has got to take a stand for public safety over permissiveness and immorality .」
narration:The TV cuts to a shot of a woman dressed in a purple and white dress , sitting in a room with candles lit . The letters VTV appear in red in the lower right - hand corner , and the title FANG FILES appears .
Fang Files Hostess:「If you ask me , he 's protesting a little too hard . Come out of the closet , Reverend Steve ! I know plenty of friendly vampires who 'd like to take a bite out of you ! ( chuckle ) Oh , but truly , it 's inflammatory talk from folks like Steve Newlin who make me ashamed to call myself a human .」
narration:Eddie 's doorbell rings .
Fang Files Hostess:「Thanks for watching . We 'll be bite back .」
narration:Eddie uses the remote to turn off the TV . He gets up from the recliner , walks over to the entrance , and looks through the glass at the top of the door .
Eddie:「Who is it ?」
narration:Jason looks through the door 's glass from the other side .
Jason:「I 'm a friend of Lafayette Reynolds . He sent me for you .」
narration:Jason smiles . Eddie peers downward at Jason , and opens the door . Amy rushes to the door and throws a silver hood over Eddie 's head . Eddie screams and falls . It sounds as if the silver hood is burning his flesh .
Jason:「Jesus Christ !」
Amy:「Get his feet .」
narration:Amy throws a silver line to Jason and begins tying Eddie 's hands with her own silver line . Smoke begins coming up from underneath the hood over Eddie 's head .
Jason:「Are you < snip > kiddin ' me ?」

Amy ( screaming ):「Get his feet !」
Jason:「Okay , okay .」
narration:Jason ties Eddie 's feet with the silver line .
Eddie ( screaming and crying ):「No , please ! I 'll give you anything you want .」
Amy ( yelling ):「Shut up !」
Jason:「Amy , what the hell ?」
Amy ( screaming ):「No names , dumb ass !」
Jason:「I thought we were just gon na take a little blood and go .」
Amy:「Shut the < snip > up !」
Jason:「Jeez .」
Amy ( yelling ):「Now , come on , lift !」
Jason:「What ?」
Amy ( yelling ):「Lift him up !」
narration:Amy and Jason pick Eddie up and take him to Jason 's truck .
Eddie ( screaming ):「Please ! No ! No ! I 'll do anything you want ! Please !」
narration:Jason and Amy put Eddie in the bed of Jason 's truck , throw a blanket over him , and close the tailgate .
SCENE 30:「Fangtasia . Pam leads a blond woman holding a lit cigarette to Sookie .」
Pam:「This is the last of our humans .」
Ginger ( to Sookie ):「Hmm . Yummy .」
narration:Pam seats Ginger and also puts out her cigarette .
Coach Eric Taylor:「Ginger . This woman has some questions for you . Now , be a good girl and answer them , will you ?」

Ginger:「Aye , aye , master .」
narration:Sookie reaches out for Ginger 's hand , and Ginger takes her hand away .
Ginger:「Do n't you touch me .」
Coach Eric Taylor:「Hold her still .」

Scene 1:「At Bill 's house - Sookie , Sam」
narration:Sookie and Sam are screaming . He 's at Dean 's place , on the bed .
Sookie ( shouting ):「What the hell are you doing here ?」
Sam:「Nothing . Sleeping .」
Sookie:「Did you touch me ?」
Sam:「Hell no , I swear . Sookie , listen . Bill asked me to look after you while he was away .」
Sookie:「Did he ask you to do it buck - naked ?」
Sam:「No , no .」
Sookie:「I want you out of here . Now .」
Sam:「Listen , listen , Sookie . I need to tell you something about me , something I 've never told another person .」
Sookie:「Oh , my God , it 's you . You 're the murderer .」
Sam:「No , no , Sookie ...」
Sookie:「Oh , my God , you killed my grandmother .」
narration:He tries to touch her and clam her but she hit him and run away , to the bathroom . She closes the door behind her and hinds in the shower . The door is open . Sookie sees Dean behind it . Dean becomes Sam . Sookie is stunned .
Sam:「I 'm not the killer , I swear . I 'm a shape - shifter .」
Sookie:「Shut the f * * * up .」
narration:Credit
Scene 2:「In the woods - Miss Jeanette , Tara」
narration:Tara and Miss Jeanette are on the ground in the woods , and Miss Jeanette prepares her stuff for the exorcism .
Tara:「What 's that for ?」
Miss Jeanette:「Give me your hand .」
Tara:「Why ?」
Miss Jeanette:「" Why , why , why ? Why 's it have to be in the woods ? Why 's it have to be before dawn ? Why 799.95 ? Why , why , why ? " You think knowing the answers will save you ? Shut up and give me your hand .」
narration:Miss Jeanette spit in Tara 's hand .
Tara:「You nasty b * * * * .」
Miss Jeanette:「That 's cleaner than anything you 've ever touched . Hold it on the fire . Keep it there . Angelica root and spit . A lot stronger than holy water . You got poison oozing out your pores . You live near a highway ?」
Tara:「No .」
Miss Jeanette:「Cook with a microwave or talk on a cell phone ?」
Tara:「Who does n't ?」
Miss Jeanette:「I do n't . All that pollution and technology , that 's how demons travel . That 's why I stay away out here in the woods , away from civilization . Rub it on you face .」
Tara:「Are you serious ?」
Miss Jeanette:「You make sure to get around you eyes . That 's the demon 's doorways .」

narration:Tara rubs on her face the potion she has in her hands . Miss Jeanette gives her a small bottle .
Miss Jeanette:「Drink .」
narration:Tara begins to drink .
Tara:「Jesus , what the hell is it ?」
Miss Jeanette:「Snake juice .」
Tara:「It 's made from snakes ?」
Miss Jeanette:「No . it snakes down in you , coils around that evil and rapes it out . All of it . Every last drop .」
narration:Tara continues to drink .
Scene 3:「Jason 's basement - Amy , Eddie」
narration:Amy takes blood from Eddie .
Eddie ( asleep ):「Jason ?」
Amy:「If I were you , I 'd get my filthy mind off of him . What is it that you vampires say ? " Jason is mine . "」
Eddie:「It 's not like that . He 's a good person .」
Amy:「Are you implying that I 'm not ?」
Eddie:「Well Jason is n't planning to kill me after I 'm no longer any use to him .」
Amy:「Sophomore year of college , I walked away from an academic scholarship so I could go to this Guatemalan village , help build their first irrigation system so they could have fresh water , crops that did n't give them dysentery . So do n't you dare get morally superior on me . I am an organic vegan , and my carbon footprint is miniscule . Because I know that , ultimately , we 're all just a single living being . But you are not .」
narration:She beats him on the shoulder .
Eddie:「What the hell ?」
Amy:「You got a clop forming .」
narration:She beats him again . Eddie shouts .
Amy:「Here . Okay , I need tape to keep it at that angle .」
narration:She opens a drawer and finds empty bottles of Tru Blood .
Amy:「Jason , Jason , Jason .」
Eddie:「I was half dead . He only tried to help .」
Amy:「He should n't told me about this . Why would n't he tell me about this ?」
Eddie:「I wo n't tell him if you wo n't .」
Amy:「Withholding is tantamount to lying , and I ca n't have that in our relationship . This is so beneath us .」
Eddie:「Jason lives you . He never cared about anyone before . He even thinks that you might be the one .」
Amy:「You talk about me with him ? And he said that ? He said that he thinks that I might be the one ?」
Eddie:「Amy , if I die here , Jason will never forgive you even if he wanted to . He 's not as evolved as you are .」
Amy:「I know .」
Scene 4:「Outside Bill 's house - Sookie , Sam」
Sookie:「A shape - shifter ?」
Sam:「Most of us refer to ourselves simply as shifters .」
Sookie:「Well , how many of you are there ?」

Sam:「Thousands , tend of thousands , maybe . We do n't exactly have a newsletter .」
Sookie:「Do you come from , like , a family of shifters or something ?」
Sam:「It 's hereditary , so yeah , I suppose . But ... I was adopted . And the family that took me in ... we just never talked about it .」
Sookie:「Can you turn into anything , like cats , birds ?」
Sam:「Cats , sure . Yeah , I can do bird , but flying 's hard . Dog 's the easiest for me . People like dogs . Most other animals leave you alone .」
Sookie:「I used to scratch your belly in the parking lot at the bar .」
Sam:「That was n't me , that was a real dog . I need a live animal in order to shift . You know , as a model . Kind like an imprint .」
Sookie:「Can you turn into another person ?」
Sam:「Humans are too complex . Despite what you might see at the bar .」
Sookie:「Can you do it any time , or what ?」
Sam:「Yeah . Yeah , but it wears off if I fall asleep . And on a full moon , I ca n't stop the shift .」
Sookie:「Like a werewolf .」
Sam:「We 're not werewolves . Hey , werewolves are dangerous , nasty creatures . Do not call me a werewolf .」
Sookie:「Werewolves exist too ? What else is there ?」
Sam:「More than you could imagine .」
narration:Sookie goes and seats on the stairs . Sam follows her .
Sookie:「I ca n't ... Life is getting too weird , too fast . Could a werewolf have killed Gran ?」
Sam:「I suppose it 's possible .」
Sookie:「Oh , my God . Bill 's been dragged off by vampires and now I find out you 're something I never even knew existed . ( She cries . Sam seats beside her and put his hand on her shoulder ) Do n't !」
Sam:「I thought you would understand .」
Sookie ( shouting ):「Why ? Because I 'm dating a vampire ?」
Sam:「You know what ' it 's like to live with a secret .」
Sookie:「I do n't hide who I am .」
narration:She goes in front of the door .
Sam ( shouting ):「I wanted to tell you for years .」
Sookie ( shouting ):「I kissed you . And I know you wanted to do more than that . Were you gon na tell me before or after ?」
narration:She enters in the house .
Scene 5:「In the woods - Tara , Miss Jeanette」
Miss Jeanette:「Spit , smoke , root . Cleanse the body . Cleanse the soul . Snake , seek , search , find . Bring it to the light . The light .」
Tara:「F * * * , my stomach .」

Miss Jeanette:「It 's angry . It 's digging its claws so it can hold on . Do n't you fight back . Let your body be the battleground . You let that demon destroy itself .」
Tara:「I feel sock .」
Miss Jeanette:「Let it go , let it go . Let it go . Let go of all that sickness , all that rage , all that anger , all that hate , all that self - pity . It 's just fuel for the demon inside of you .」
Tara:「F * * * .」
narration:Tara vomits .
Miss Jeanette:「Come forth , demon . Leave this child in peace . Come into the light . Show yourself .」
narration:Tara sees a small girl in the woods .
Tara:「That ai n't real .」
Miss Jeanette:「What 's there ? Tell me what you see .」
Tara:「It 's me standing right over there . It 's me .」
Miss Jeanette:「The demon will take on any form to stay alive . It knows your weaknesses . It preys on your fears . ( She gives Tara a dagger ) Only you can destroy it .」
narration:Tara gets up and goes to the girl .
Miss Jeanette:「Do n't let it fool you , Tara Mae . You stand up to that demon .」
Little Tara ( to Tara ):「No , Mama , please , do n't hurt me .」
Miss Jeanette ( to Tara ):「One of you must die .」
narration:Tara kills little Tara with the dagger . Little Tara disappears . Tara sees blood on the dagger . She cries .
Miss Jeanette ( coming to her ):「Good girl . Good girl , good girl . Good girl . It 's all over now . That demon is gone forever .」
Scene 6:「In Jason 's bathroom - Jason , Amy」
narration:Jason is in the bathroom , looking in the mirror when Amy comes .
Amy:「You spend more time on your hair than any man I 've ever met .」
Jason:「The trick is to make it look like you did n't do nothing . It 's harder than it might seem .」
Amy:「I do n't think you need any help looking good , you know it .」
Jason:「I think I might have had one too many beers last night . I feel like I been shot at and missed , sh1 t at and hit .」
narration:Amy sits on the cabinet .
Amy:「We need to talk about Eddie .」
Jason:「Okay .」
Amy:「Well , I 've been thinking . The way that we 've been treating him , it 's just really uncivilized , you know ?」
Jason:「Yeah . I do know .」
Amy:「We ca n't let him go , of course but we can try to make things just a little bit more comfortable for him . Do you know what Stockholm syndrome is ?」
Jason:「It 's a disease .」
