narrator:INCLUDE CREEK
 5 Girard lands flat on his back, stunned, his sword out of reach. D_Artagnan lands similarly, but recovers with grace, or rather, as much grace as the muddy situation will allow. He rolls toward Girard, sword in hand, and lightly places the sharp gleaming tip against his adam's apple.
 A long beat. Then a surprise. Girard begins to laugh, long and loud. D_Artagnan responds with a charmed smile.
D_Artagnan:「Had enough? GIRARD (breathless deadpan) I believe now would be a good time to end your, uhm, formal training. Well done.」

narrator:ANOTHER ANGLE
 7 She stands at the open window, watches his coltish high steps with love. Sadness too.
 CUT TO:
 INT. D_ARTAGNAN'S HOME - DAY
 8
 D_Artagnan steps through the country manor, calls out: D_ARTAGNAN Mother...?
 But he does not see her.
 D_Artagnan continues, chatter- ing proudly as he goes.
D_Artagnan:「Did you see us? You heard us, I'll bet. Girard finally surrendered a compliment... though I almost had to kill him to get it... Mother...? D_Artagnan comes upon an open door, a small room beyond. He pauses, then steps inside.」
narrator:INCLUDE FATHER'S STUDY
 9
 A Spartan interior. Heraldic emblems upon the wall, sou- venirs from battles won and lost. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 9 A piece of parchment, on it the words: "All For One, and One For All." And, in a place of honor, a worn blue and gold tunic. Below it, the Handsome Woman, d_Artagnan's mother, kneels at an open chest. She turns back to him. MOTHER (HANDSOME WOMAN) Sit down.

D_Artagnan:「Didn't you hear me? Girard --」
MOTHER:「Sit. D_Artagnan sighs, sits in a large wooden chair. A beat. His mother speaks quietly, eyes turned back to the open chest. MOTHER Your father was a proud man. And he had a right to be. I never knew one as brave or as kind. He knew that his strength was a gift to be given in the service of honor. That is why he dedicated his life to his country and his King. That is why he gave his life, for both.」
narrator:She reaches into the chest, carefully extracts a beautiful saber. MOTHER I watched you this morning and saw someone I knew. You have your father's heart, his will to fight, his courage. But these gifts have no value unless they are given. She rises, holds the sword out to him.
MOTHER:「It's time for you find your fortune with men as brave and as bold as you are. In Paris. With the King's Musketeers. (re: sword) You'll need this.」
D_Artagnan:「quiet, moved) Father's sword. (CONTINUED)」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 (2)
 9 MOTHER Forged in the Crusades, handed from generation to generation. D_ARTAGNAN And now to me.
 D_Artagnan can't help it, his eager reply leavens the nobility of the moment with warm humor, youthful inno- cence. His mother smiles as she repeats.
MOTHER:「Yes, son.
 And now to you. With that, she holds out the beautiful saber.
 D_Artagnan takes it firmly into his hands.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 EXT. GASCONY - DAY
 10 A huge and beautiful field appropriate to the moment. Mother and son stand in the vast expanse. D_Artagnan holds a restless horse by the reins, his traveling satch- el attached to the saddle. MOTHER I'm not your mother now. I'm speaking for your father. And this is what he would have told you. Never forget the code of the d_Artagnans. It is your special heritage. (beat) Always seek out adventure...
D_Artagnan:「I will. MOTHER Never run from a fight... D_ARTAGNAN I won't.」
MOTHER:「Never submit to insults.
 Except from the King.」
D_Artagnan:「Never. (CONTINUED)」

narrator:EXT. HIGH ROAD TO PARIS - DAY
 18 D_Artagnan, on horseback, pauses on a bluff overlook- ing the magnificent city on the Seine. What he beholds is Paris as it looked in the early part of the Seven- teenth Century, its steeples and towers rising to meet the sky. For a country boy like d_Artagnan, Paris is a magical place where the wildest of dreams can come true. D_Artagnan's reverie is broken by the sound of THUNDERING HOOFBEATS coming from behind. He turns in response and what he sees is this: Two women on horseback are riding for all they're worth pursued by two men on horseback.
 D_ARTAGNAN
 19
 His heroic blood stirs. Women in danger! As the women GALLOP past, d_Artagnan leaps from his horse. Quickly formulating a plan, he clambers up the trunk of a nearby tree and climbs out on a branch that overhangs the road.
 ANGLE
 20 As the two riders pass underneath, d_Artagnan leaps into space and tackles one of them, knocking him out of the saddle. The rider hits the ground and is knocked sense- less. One down. D_Artagnan scrambles to his feet as the second rider re- verses direction and GALLOPS back, charging d_Artagnan. The rider draws his saber. D_Artagnan dodges the horse and the sword. He catches the second rider's arm and yanks him right out of the saddle. The man lands with a painful thud at d_Artagnan's feet. Before he can recover, d_Artagnan is upon him with flying fists. One swift punch -- and the second rider is senseless. Two down.
 D_Artagnan stands over his two victims, out of breath, but greatly pleased with his performance. He looks up as the two women ride back to see what's happened. The first woman is of noble breeding, a beautiful dark- haired girl in her late teens. Her name is ANNE. Her companion is roughly the same age, titan-haired and equally beautiful. Her name is CONSTANCE. Anne regards the two men on the ground, then d_Artagnan. She shakes her head, laughs with delight and rides off. Constance remains. She smiles down at d_Artagnan from atop her horse. CONSTANCE Do you have any idea what you've done?
D_Artagnan:「I've saved you and your friend from these bandits.」

CONSTANCE:「These 'bandits' are the Queen's own bodyguards.」
narrator:D_Artagnan is stunned. D_ARTAGNAN The Queen?
 Constance points a finger in Anne's direction. CONSTANCE If I were you, I'd make myself scarce. These men are going to be very angry when they wake up. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 20 D_Artagnan looks at the two bodyguards who are beginning to recover. Then he looks up at Constance, feeling like a prize idiot. D_ARTAGNAN I didn't know. I thought...
 Constance smiles at him, her eyes twinkling. CONSTANCE Do you have a name?
D_Artagnan:「D_Artagnan.」
CONSTANCE:「You're a very foolish boy, d_Artagnan... but a very handsome one. Good-bye. Constance spurs her horse and rides off to catch up with Anne. D_ARTAGNAN (calling after her) Wait!
 You didn't tell me your name! But Constance is gone. D_Artagnan stands in the middle of the road, feeling foolish and oddly thrilled at the same time. The two bodyguards groan and grumble.」
narrator:A bright reflection catches d_Artagnan's eye. He looks down and sees a gleaming bracelet. He picks it up and...

D_Artagnan:「The man who attacked you... (pointing in the opposite direction) ... went that way. With a guilty smile, d_Artagnan spurs his horse and rides like Hell.」

narrator:INT. MUSKETEER HEADQUARTERS - DAY
 23 Athos, Aramis, and Porthos sweep into the now deserted courtyard. Silence -- the last thing they expected -- stops them in their tracks. The place is a cemetery, haunted by the ghosts of generations of Musketeers. Porthos is visibly distraught. Rochefort enters from behind an archway.
ROCHEFORT:「I'll take those tunics, Musketeers. PORTHOS (to Aramis) What did he say? ARAMIS He said he'll take those tunics. PORTHOS Tunics?
 Coming right up. Porthos reaches inside his cloak and takes out a crumpled red tunic he took from one of the Cardinal's guards. He drops it on the ground, digs into a pocket and takes out another. He finds another in his boot and another up his sleeve. There's one in his hat. Like a magician, he keeps pulling red tunics out of the most bizarre places.」
narrator:Athos and Aramis have a few guard tunics themselves. They pull them out and drop them into the growing pile.
ATHOS:「I was trying to remember the last time I saw you here. I know. It was the day you were kicked out of the Musketeers.」
ARAMIS:「Conduct Unbecoming a Musketeer. Wasn't that the charge?」
ROCHEFORT:「You ought to know. Three witnesses stood against me.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 23 ATHOS It was the least we could do.
 The bitter memory hangs in the air for a moment. ROCHEFORT You are hereby ordered to surrender your commissions and make yourselves available for reassignment in the King's Army.
ATHOS:「And if we refuse? ROCHEFORT You will become outlaws.
 Hunted men. PORTHOS It doesn't matter where I go or what I do. Sooner or later somebody's calling me 'outlaw.' Athos cuts him off with a look. He's familiar with Porthos' propensity for tall tales. But not here, not now. Athos turns back to the balcony. Rochefort lobs a taunt. ROCHEFORT Are you refusing to serve your King? ARAMIS We are refusing to serve the Cardinal. PORTHOS Same thing, these days. ARAMIS France has one King too many.」
ROCHEFORT:「I'll tell him you said that.」
narrator:Athos, who has remained silent, speaks with quiet power:
ATHOS:「Do that, Rochefort. Tell his Emminence the Cardinal that we will continue to perform our sworn duty to protect the King. From enemies across the sea. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 23 ATHOS From traitors who sit at his right hand. And tell him that he can take away our tunics, our muskets, even our swords. But he cannot stop us from being what we are. Musketeers.
 The gauntlet has been thrown.
 Rochefort picks it up with glee.

ROCHEFORT:「I'll make sure His Emminence the Cardinal gets the message. But I can't promise he'll be pleased.」
narrator:Rochefort steps back, disappears into the shadows.
 A beat. The Musketeers regard each other. PORTHOS Well, if we're going to be outlaws, I suppose we'll have to get our affairs in order.
ARAMIS:「Are you going to visit them alphabetically or in order of preference?」
PORTHOS:「Alphabetically seems... fair. ARAMIS When it comes to you and women, fairness rarely applies. ATHOS (interrupts) We'll meet at the Columbier-Rouge at sundown. (off their looks) To celebrate. And to plan our new lives. PORTHOS Outlaws.」
ARAMIS:「Citizens of France.」
ATHOS:「The three Musketeers. And that is all that remains.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (3)
 23 Athos, Porthos, and Aramis step in different directions.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. STREETS OF PARIS - DAY
 24
 D_Artagnan rides through the streets of Paris. A country boy happily stunned by the sights, sounds, and smells of the city. Merchants gossip and call to each other from shop doors. Colorful vendors and pedestrians move along the crowded boulevard. Acrobats, puppeteers, and jug- glers perform on street corners. LAUGHTER and MUSIC drift from taverns and public houses.
 D_Artagnan views it all with great enthusiasm. He sees the exterior of the Musketeer Headquarters... wow! The future belongs to him.
 ATHOS
 25 He crosses the courtyard to a large wooden door. But as he reaches for the handle, the door flies open and smacks him in his injured arm. D_ARTAGNAN (as he enters) Look out! ATHOS (wincing in pain) Aaarrgghh...
D_Artagnan:「in a panic; looking around) Where are they? Where are the Musketeers? I'm in the right place, aren't I?」

ATHOS:「through gritted teeth) Not as far as I'm concerned.」
narrator:Athos is wearing his cape in such a way that it hides his Musketeer tunic. D_Artagnan has no idea who he's dealing with.
D_Artagnan:「But this is Musketeer Headquarters... (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 25 ATHOS No. This was Musketeer Headquarters. D_ARTAGNAN You mean it's been moved?
ATHOS:「I mean the Musketeers have been disbanded. Feel free to poke around for souvenirs.」
D_Artagnan:「What do you mean 'disbanded'?」

narrator:ANGLE ON D_ARTAGNAN
 28 Meanwhile, d_Artagnan races around another corner, down a narrow lane, and speeds after the ladies on horseback. He dashes through a muddy puddle -- spraying foul water all over Porthos where he stands. D_Artagnan doesn't notice, a huge cart loaded with wine barrels has rolled INTO VIEW, blocking the lane. Fellow travelers shout complaints, the cart driver shakes his head, makes an obscene gesture. It's a Seventeenth Century traffic jam.
 D_Artagnan sees Anne and Constance dismount in the dis- tance, tie their horses, and step into an alley. A man waits in the shadows to escort them. D_Artagnan leaps off his horse, he means to continue his pursuit on foot. But he takes two quick steps, and... runs directly into Porthos' outstretched hand.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 28 D_Artagnan looks up -- literally, given Porthos' impres- sive stature -- and sees the Musketeer's muddied tunic, and worse, a unique and expensive sash, now thoroughly soiled. PORTHOS (not a glimmer of a grin) Do you know where this sash comes from?
D_Artagnan:「No. PORTHOS It is a gift from the Queen of America. Porthos' righteous indignation is more impressive than his knowledge of current affairs. D_Artagnan corrects. D_ARTAGNAN There is no Queen of America.」

PORTHOS:「to pretty woman) Madame Augustine, would you excuse me for a moment, I'm going to kill him. (back to d_Artagnan; ever the gentleman) Now, where were we? D_ARTAGNAN (glancing at the ladies; the alley) I rode through a puddle, muddied your sash, the Queen of America except there isn't one, I'm in a hurry, and you were about to challenge me to a duel.
 amused) I was?」
D_Artagnan:「That seems to be the local custom. Porthos lets out a weary sigh.
 He shakes his head.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 28 PORTHOS Everywhere I go, it's always the same. There's always some kid who thinks he's hot with a sword... some itchy punk who wants to go up against the great Porthos...
D_Artagnan:「The great who? PORTHOS The great Porthos. (when d_Artagnan isn't impressed) Me, you idiot.」

narrator:EXT. STREETS OF PARIS - ALLEY - DAY
 29 D_Artagnan thinks he sees
 Anne and Constance, races down the alley, turns a corner,
 down a short street, makes a hasty decision, runs down
 yet another alley... and tum- bles into a shadowy lane.
 He stops, looks left and right. And does see them.
 The ladies enter a chapel's back door, close the door behind them. D_Artagnan flies after, skids across cob- blestones, rips the door open... and finds himself face to face with the man who has escorted Anne and Constance this far.
D_Artagnan:「Let me pass. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 29 CARDINAL'S GUARD I'm afraid that's not possible.
D_Artagnan:「I must speak to those young women.」
narrator:CARDINAL'S GUARD The young women do not wish to be spoken to. D_ARTAGNAN I have something that belongs to the Queen. GUARD (alert) What? D_ARTAGNAN A bracelet. GUARD I'll deliver it for you.

D_Artagnan:「No, you've been enough help already. Would you be so kind as to point out the Carmes-Deshaux Monastery? The Guard points to a large building in the distance with a large cross. CUT TO:」

narrator:EXT. CARMES-DESCHAUX MONASTERY - DAY
 41 The monastery is a windowless building
 bordered by a barren field, a dueling ground for men
 who have little time to waste. Athos sits on a stone
 bench, waits for his adversary to arrive. His horse is
 hobbled nearby. D_Artagnan rides INTO VIEW, dismounts. ATHOS Ten minutes early. D_ARTAGNAN I have another appointment at one. ATHOS You'll miss it, I'm afraid.
D_Artagnan:「I'll try my best to be on time.」
narrator:Athos appreciates the young man's retort, takes a closer look. Then he rises to his feet, the pain in his arm makes him wince.
ATHOS:「I asked two of my friends to act as seconds, but they are not as punctual.」
narrator:D_Artagnan notices Athos' pained expression, the blood on his sleeve. D_ARTAGNAN But you're wounded.
ATHOS:「Don't worry. I fight just as well with my left hand. (CONTINUED)」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 41 D_ARTAGNAN If you'd rather kill me another time... ATHOS Thanks, but I see my seconds coming now.
 Porthos and Aramis arrive on horseback. They dismount, view d_Artagnan with amazement. D_Artagnan reacts with similar surprise, smiles sheepishly.
PORTHOS:「to Athos) What're you doing? You can't fight this man.」
ATHOS:「Why not? PORTHOS Because I'm fighting him. D_ARTAGNAN Excuse me, monsieur. But not until one o'clock. ARAMIS (amused) Wait a minute. I've got a duel with him, too. D_ARTAGNAN Yes, sir.
 But not until two. ATHOS (to d_Artagnan) How long have you been in Paris? D_ARTAGNAN I arrived this morning.
 You've been... busy.」
D_Artagnan:「I've also fallen in love. ATHOS (gruff to a fault) Better to die for love than to live for it. Gentlemen? (CONTINUED)」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 (2)
 41 Athos gestures for Aramis and Porthos to stand aside. He draws his saber, ready to fight. A beat. And in that moment, d_Artagnan's face reveals an emotion he has never felt before in his young life. Fear. Athos sees it, allows him a moment to withdraw his saber. D_Artagnan does so, they square off, touch sabers, and...
 Jussac leads a patrol of the Cardinal's Guards INTO VIEW. JUSSAC There they are!! Athos and d_Artagnan separate as Jussac and his four swordsmen stride towards them.
ARAMIS:「Jussac.
 Again. Athos steps forward to meet him. ATHOS I told you the next time we met I'd want an answer. But I didn't expect you so soon. JUSSAC The three of you are under arrest. The boy's of no interest to me and is free to go. Do you intend to resist? PORTHOS Oh, don't be stupid. Of course we intend to resist. Just give us a second.」
narrator:Porthos huddles with Athos and Aramis. PORTHOS Interesting odds. Five of them and three of us. ARAMIS It hardly seems fair. Let's give them the chance to surrender.
D_Artagnan:「interrupting) Excuse me, but there are four of us.」

narrator:AFTERMATH
 45 A sudden silence, save for the occasional dull groan. D_Artagnan scans the battlefield, sees Aramis bending over Jussac's body, speaking in solemn tones under his breath. D_ARTAGNAN (to Athos) What's he doing?
ATHOS:「Last rites. Aramis takes death very seriously.」
narrator:Porthos returns in high spirits, stashes the bolo in a pouch under his cloak. D_Artagnan sees the other weapons there, including a boomerang. Maybe next time.
PORTHOS:「re: the bolo) Do you know where this bolo comes from?」
D_Artagnan:「a bold jest, given the circumstances) The Queen of America?」
PORTHOS:「Spain.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 45 Porthos deadpans, then grins acceptance.
 All for one, and one for all. D_Artagnan beams.
ARAMIS:「Don't encourage him. By killing Jussac, the boy's made himself an outlaw too.」
ATHOS:「Not if he leaves Paris. Which is exactly what he's going to do.」
D_Artagnan:「I can't leave. I just got here.」

PORTHOS:「Go home, find a wench, live long and prosper. D_ARTAGNAN Why can't I stay with you? Aramis and Porthos look to Athos.
 As always, he will decide. ATHOS Because I do not want you to. It's hard to say whether he's acting out of concern for the boy... or he simply doesn't give a damn. Whatever the case, d_Artagnan is crestfallen. The Musketeers mount their horses, Porthos and Aramis adopt a friendlier tone.」
ARAMIS:「I know Athos may seem cold and unfriendly, but don't let that fool you. PORTHOS He really is cold and unfriendly.
 But he's also right. This is our fight, not yours. Go on, get out of here.」
D_Artagnan:「Whatever happened to the motto of the Musketeers? 'All for one, and one for all.'」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 47 Meanwhile, d_Artagnan is soon outnumbered, and quickly subdued. GUARD This boy fights like a wildcat. D_ARTAGNAN (exhausted) Thank you.
 The Guard clobbers d_Artagnan with the scabbard of his sword. The last thing d_Artagnan sees is the three Musketeers riding into the distance. Then the WORLD TILTS, GOES SUDDENLY BLACK.
 FADE IN:
 EXT. BASTILLE - NIGHT
 48
 The walls and towers of France's most infamous prison rise to meet a starless sky. The portcullis is raised by men-at-arms, admitting a spectacular crimson carriage pulled by a team of snow-white stallions. The emblem of the Cardinal of France is emblazoned on the carriage door, and THROUGH its WINDOW we see the profile of Richelieu.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 48 Lovingly, he fingers the upholstery of his extravagant carriage.
 CUT TO:
 INT. DUNGEON - NIGHT
 49
 A chamber in hell. Spiders the size of rats, rats the size of small dogs. A foul stench in the air. D_Artagnan is sprawled in a corner, unconscious, on a filthy matted floor. The sharp tip of a sword pokes him in the chest. D_Artagnan wakes with a start, springs back into action. As if he was still battling Jussac at the Carmes-Deschaux. He slaps the sword away, leaps to his feet, and reaches for his own. But it is gone.
D_Artagnan:「My sword -- ROCHEFORT It's magnificent. Where did you get it?」

narrator:Rochefort steps INTO VIEW, the familiar eyepatch, admiring d_Artagnan's sword in his hands. D_ARTAGNAN (after a beat) It belonged to my father. ROCHEFORT Your father...
 Rochefort studies d_Artagnan for a long moment, then... ROCHEFORT Well now it belongs to me. I collect swords. I take them from the men I kill.
D_Artagnan:「I'm not dead yet. D_Artagnan starts forward. But Rochefort raises the sword, points it at his throat. D_Artagnan freezes, feels the sharp tip of the blade. ROCHEFORT Soon enough.」
narrator:Rochefort shoves d_Artagnan back to the floor with a heavy boot. A beat. D_Artagnan peers at his dismal surroundings.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 49 D_ARTAGNAN Where am I?
ROCHEFORT:「I'll give you a hint. It's not the Louvre.」
D_Artagnan:「realizing) The Bastille! I'm in the Bastille!」
ROCHEFORT:「Well, you're the first person who was ever happy to be here. Unfortunately, your visit will be a short one.」

D_Artagnan:「What do you mean? ROCHEFORT You killed one of the Cardinal's Guards. An offense punishable by death. D_ARTAGNAN He interrupted a duel I was fighting.」
ROCHEFORT:「Also punishable by death. D_ARTAGNAN It was a long day. ROCHEFORT You know them?」
D_Artagnan:「Who?」
ROCHEFORT:「The Musketeers. D_Artagnan says nothing.
 He will not betray them. Rochefort leans close.
 Tell me where they are, and I will be lenient.」
D_Artagnan:「How? (CONTINUED)」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 55 Richelieu produces a sealed document from his sleeve, and hands it to Milady.
RICHELIEU:「Carry this to the Duke of Buckingham.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 55 MILADY (impressed) You did it. An alliance with Buckingham. RICHELIEU The King left me no choice. Now that he's come of age, the boy believes he should rule France. Instead of me.
 Rochefort knows what this portends.
 He steps from the corner. ROCHEFORT You're going to go through with ... everything? RICHELIEU (silences him with a glance) Yes. Everything. (to Milady) You're to leave for Calais at once. A ship called the Persephone will carry you to England. It sails Tuesday, midnight. I want Buckingham's signature next to mine before the King's birthday. Friday. MILADY Consider it done.
RICHELIEU:「And doing so, shall earn you the gratitude of... a King.」
narrator:Richelieu's not talking about Louis.
 He's talking about himself.
 CUT TO:
 INT. BASTILLE - CORRIDOR - NIGHT
 56
 D_Artagnan leaps back from the door as it opens, head down, shuffles to join the retinue of jailers as they RETURN TO VIEW. Milady, unrecognizable behind her cloak, steps into the corridor, the retinue escorts her forward. D_Artagnan falls into place, eyes down, eager for escape. Just then: a hand slams down upon his shoulder. D_Artagnan looks up into the face of Captain Rochefort.
 EXT. BASTILLE - MILADY'S COACH
 57 Exiting. CUT TO:
 INT. BASTILLE - NIGHT
 58
 D_Artagnan lands with a thud at Richelieu's feet. Rochefort hisses: ROCHEFORT On your knees.
 When d_Artagnan fails to respond, Rochefort gives him a mighty kick. D_Artagnan scrambles into the correct posture of supplication. Rochefort continues:
ROCHEFORT:「This is the boy who killed Jussac. D_ARTAGNAN I can explain that -- ROCHEFORT Silence! Rochefort punches d_Artagnan in the head, knocking him to the floor. The Cardinal frowns.」
RICHELIEU:「Rochefort. Violence solves nothing. Leave him to me. D_Artagnan reacts to the Cardinal's reasonable tone. Rochefort makes a sullen exit. The Cardinal smiles. RICHELIEU Please.
 Sit down. D_Artagnan reacts with perceptible awe, as if seeing his first movie star. He sits in a finely brocaded chair, looks at the Cardinal, an apparition in red. The Cardinal speaks, his manner casual, friendly. RICHELIEU How much did you hear?」

D_Artagnan:「busted) Not a word, Your Eminence. I stepped from my cell for a breath of air, and became lost in the corridors, it's dark as you know, but then I saw a light up ahead, the light over your door, I... (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 58 Richelieu smiles, dismisses d_Artagnan's tale with a wave of his hand.
RICHELIEU:「You may have many talents, my young friend. But guile is not one of them. Do you have a name?」
D_Artagnan:「D_Artagnan.」
RICHELIEU:「I've heard that name before.
 Are you a Gascon?」

D_Artagnan:「Yes, Your Eminence. RICHELIEU Tell me. What brought you to Paris. And don't say 'a horse.' D_ARTAGNAN I came to join the King's Musketeers. RICHELIEU Bad timing.
 So I've heard. RICHELIEU D_Artagnan, I like you. I could use a capable young man like you in my Guards.
 I'm honored, Your Eminence, but I don't think I would be very popular with the other men. Not after today. RICHELIEU I suppose not. Your heart is set on being a Musketeer. (off his look) When I was your age, I too had dreams of joining the Musketeers.
 surprised) You, Your Eminence? (CONTINUED)」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 (2)
 58 RICHELIEU Why not? Becoming a Musketeer is the fantasy of every young Frenchman. Or should I say it was... (with seeming kindness, reason) Like the Knights of the Round Table, the Musketeers have outlived their usefulness. They are a thing of the past. (beat) And so have your three friends. Tell me where they are, d_Artagnan, and I will spare your life.
 Richelieu's seeming kindness conceals a heart of ice. D_Artagnan sees it now, replies quietly. No longer in awe, but in opposition. D_ARTAGNAN I'm sorry. But I can't tell you what I do not know.
RICHELIEU:「In that case, give my regards to the headsman. D_ARTAGNAN What about my trial? RICHELIEU You've just had it.」
narrator:Richelieu turns for the door, means to dismiss him. D_Artagnan calls after.
D_Artagnan:「Wait -- RICHELIEU Why? Do you object to losing your head? D_ARTAGNAN Yes.
 I like it where it is.」

RICHELIEU:「Then tell me what I want to know, and perhaps you will keep it there a few years longer. (beat) Where are the three Musketeers? (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 (3)
 58 D_ARTAGNAN I don't know.
RICHELIEU:「And if you did?」
D_Artagnan:「after a beat) I wouldn't tell you. RICHELIEU I admire your courage, young man. You might have made a fine Musketeer after all.」

narrator:CARRIAGE
 68 Athos produces a dagger, cuts the leather ties that bind d_Artagnan's wrists. ATHOS Hold on!
 Athos cracks the whip, driving the horses onward. CUT TO:
 INT. CARRIAGE - DAY
 69
 Aramis and Porthos have settled in comfortably.
 Porthos spies a wicker hamper on the floor. PORTHOS Well, what have we here?
 Porthos lifts the lid. Inside: bottles of wine, champagne, and a wide assortment of foods.
PORTHOS:「How considerate of the Cardinal to provide us with a snack. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 69 Porthos extracts a bottle of wine, grabs a turkey leg. Aramis looks about the interior, spies a small ornate box. ARAMIS Hello.
 Aramis opens the box, reacts.
 It is filled with gold coins, jewelry. ARAMIS How is it that a man of God becomes a man of gold? PORTHOS (looks on, grins) Trinkets for the ladies. ARAMIS Let's share.
 STREETS OF PARIS - CARRIAGE
 70
 Aramis sticks his head through the hole in the fabric roof, hands the ornate box to d_Artagnan. ARAMIS Would you be so good as to distribute these? Your generosity will be greatly appreciated. D_ARTAGNAN (open the box, reacts) But...? ARAMIS (to the point) Throw the coins, boy.
 The people are hungry.
 D_Artagnan grabs a handful of coins, and tosses them into the air. Aramis smiles approval, drops back to the carriage interior. Pedestrians see the gold, shout, and leap after. Their hurried steps impede the Guards' pro- gress, horses rear up, soldiers tumble. But several of the Guards manage to avoid the obstacle, pursue the carriage with renewed determination. D_Artagnan hears a LOUD POPPING sound, ducks.
D_Artagnan:「They're firing at us!」

narrator:EXT. WOODS - DAY
 75 D_Artagnan and the three Musketeers rest against tree trunks in a hidden glade, polish off the last of the Cardinal's food and drink. Their usual cynicism replaced by something approaching camaraderie. Aramis smiles as d_Artagnan attacks a turkey wing. D_ARTAGNAN I haven't eaten in three days. I guess with all the excitement, I forgot. ARAMIS Your trip from home has been an eventful one.
D_Artagnan:「he can't quite believe it) Three days. PORTHOS I heard of a d_Artagnan once. He was a captain in the Musketeers when we were just recruits. D_ARTAGNAN He was my father.」
ARAMIS:「A good man, I'm told.」
PORTHOS:「I knew there was something familiar about this boy. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 75 D_ARTAGNAN (sadly) He died when I was nine. The mention of the elder d_Artagnan's death casts a pall. D_Artagnan continues, tentative, the memory still hurts.
D_Artagnan:「All my mother would tell me is that he died in the service of the King.」

narrator:An uncomfortable silence.
 It is Athos who finally speaks: ATHOS D_Artagnan, your father and another Musketeer were ambushed and murdered outside the Louvre. D_Artagnan pales, stunned and silent.
 He manages a broken whisper: D_ARTAGNAN This other Musketeer -- is he still alive? I'd like to talk to him. Athos shakes his head.
 Porthos adds:
PORTHOS:「You already have. His name is the Count De Rochefort. D_Artagnan isn't listening. He stands suddenly, turns, and walks away. He doesn't want the Musketeers to see the tears forming in his eyes. Aramis shouts after:」
ARAMIS:「D_Artagnan. CUT TO:」
narrator:EXT. WOODS - DAY
 76
 D_Artagnan stands at a flowing stream, wipes the tears from his eyes. Aramis appears at his side, offers silent comfort, a hand on d_Artagnan's shoulder. D_ARTAGNAN (quietly) I imagined his death a hundred time. (MORE)
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 76 D_ARTAGNAN On a battlefield, defending his King. Fighting bravely for France. And now... I will find the man who murdered my father and kill him where he stands.
ARAMIS:「A man is better measured by his life than by his death. Your father was bold, and brave.」
D_Artagnan:「But you never knew him...」

ARAMIS:「He lives in you. That's all the evidence Aramis requires.
 D_Artagnan pauses to reflect. Then wonders: D_ARTAGNAN And your father?
 I was orphaned at a young age. The church took me in. D_ARTAGNAN You didn't have one. ARAMIS But I did. He was a great man, a leader of the church. And his example inspired me to dedicate my life to God's service.」
narrator:Aramis opens his cloak, reveals a priestly cloth.
 A secret he carries near to his heart. D_ARTAGNAN You were a priest... ARAMIS I was a fool. (eyes on the cool water) This great man, this father, betrayed the church, and turned his back on God. To worship power and gold. (MORE) (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 76 ARAMIS (quietly) It broke my heart to see it. D_ARTAGNAN And you became a Musketeer.
ARAMIS:「I joined the Musketeers and a strange thing happened. I got my faith back.」
D_Artagnan:「But who was that man...」

narrator:EXT. ROOF OF PALAIS CARDINAL - DAY
 77 Richelieu stands on the roof
 of the Palais, lost in thought. He looks down and
 sees, through the smoke and mist, the silent rooftops of
 Paris, pointed, innumerable. Richelieu turns, and crosses
 to an elaborate pigeon coop. Servants attach messages to
 the legs of carrier pigeons. Rochefort steps INTO VIEW, anxious, out of breath. ROCHEFORT (bowing) Your Eminence. The Musketeers have been sighted riding north on the road to Calais.
 Richelieu nods, he already knows.
 He picks up one of the pigeons, strokes it gently. RICHELIEU Don't worry. Thanks to our winged friends, every mercenary and bounty hunter in France will be waiting for them. (with a smile) Isn't modern communication a wonderful thing? (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 77 Richelieu releases the bird, and watches it streak sky- ward, flying across the sky.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. WOODS - DAY
 78
 The three Musketeers gather around d_Artagnan, listen to his story. In mid-telling:
D_Artagnan:「I couldn't hear it clearly, I was standing by the door, the voices were low --」

narrator:EXT. ROAD TO CALAIS - NIGHT
 81 An overturned wagon lies in the ditch. Beer kegs litter the roadway. The wagon's driver, an old FARMER, sits on one of the kegs, holding his head. D_Artagnan and the Musketeers gallop INTO VIEW, rein their horses to a stop. FARMER (with relief) Thank God for a friendly face. My horse broke loose. Can you help me move these kegs out of the road? D_Artagnan starts to dismount.
ATHOS:「Stay on your horse. D_ARTAGNAN He needs our help.
 Don't worry.
 We'll help him.」
narrator:Suddenly: two other men step before the wagon, pointing muskets. The ragged Farmer reaches inside his coat, pulls out a pistol, makes a smirking request: (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 81 FARMER Won't you step down... Musketeers?
ARAMIS:「Gentlemen, I beg you. Please put away your weapons and remove these kegs from the road. We'd prefer to ride on without having to kill you. D_Artagnan and the "Farmers" gape at Aramis in surprise.」
narrator:FARMER You're threatening us?
PORTHOS:「It's not a threat, it's a fact. If you don't haul those kegs away, you're dead where you stand. The Farmer laughs, contemptuously. He raises his pistol and aims it at Porthos' head. But before he can pull the trigger, THREE EXPLOSIONS ERUPT from under the cloaks of Athos, Porthos and Aramis. When the smoke clears, d_Artagnan is startled to see the three dead "Farmers" sprawled in the road and the three pistols emerging from beneath the cloaks of the Musketeers. PORTHOS Mine hit the ground first. ATHOS Mine was taller. Aramis swings out of the saddle and begins to perform last rites over the bodies. D_Artagnan still can't be- lieve what just happened. He turns to Porthos. Porthos raises the barrel to his lips and blows away the gunsmoke.
 There's only one rule, d_Artagnan -- stay alive.」
narrator:THUNDER RUMBLES and RAINS begins to fall.
 CUT TO:
 INT. COUNTRY INN - NIGHT
 82
 A large warm tavern with a ROARING FIRE. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 82 Present are the INNKEEPER, his wife, a few benighted tra- velers and THREE BARMAIDS. They turn as the door flies open and the Musketeers and d_Artagnan enter from a RAGING STORM. They keep their cloaks drawn about them and wear the brims of their hats pulled low to cover their faces.
 The occupants of the inn regard the new arrivals with suspicion. Outisde, the STORM BLOWS. D_Artagnan closes the heavy door. Fearful, the Innkeeper comes forward to meet the four ominous travelers.

INNKEEPER:「Good evening. ATHOS See to our horses and bring us some food. INNKEEPER (apologetic) I'm sorry but we have little to spare. The Cardinal's Guards were here today. They helped themselves to our food and then refused to pay. ARAMIS (bitter) In the name of God, I'm sure. Porthos is on the lookout for danger. He reaches inside his cloak for a weapon and, in doing so, accidentally exposes his Musketeer tunic.」
narrator:BARMAID #1 (crying out) Musketeers!
 The sound of SLIDING STEEL as Athos, Porthos, Aramis and d_Artagnan draw their swords, ready to fight. They stand back to back in a circle, ready for attack.
 But there is no attack. Quite the contrary.
 The people here are thrilled to see them.
INNKEEPER:「honored) Musketeers in my house! Gentlemen, put away your swords and come in. Anyone who fights the Cardinal is welcome here.」
narrator:The Musketeers lower their swords. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 82 ARAMIS I think we've found a home.
 The Musketeers return their swords to their sheathes and take off their dripping hats and capes. The pretty Barmaids crowd around them to collect their gear and car- ry it to the fire.
INNKEEPER:「We don't have much but what we have is yours.」
narrator:Porthos rubs his hands together, eager to indulge himself. He follows the Barmaids, booming in his loud, friendly voice.
PORTHOS:「Ladies, you're in for a treat tonight. Allow me to introduce myself. I'm the Musketeer they call Porthos. Porthos beams, waiting for a big response but nothing happens. The Barmaids look at each other. PORTHOS (repeating; louder) Porthos.」
narrator:Still no response.
 Aramis and d_Artagnan hide smiles. ARAMIS It's hard to believe they haven't heard of the great Porthos. PORTHOS Oh, shut up, Aramis.
 The three Barmaids perk up. BARMAIDS (with excitement) Aramis? Did you say Aramis? And with that, the three Barmaids desert Porthos and scurry across the room to attach themselves to Aramis. Porthos shakes his head and flops down in a chair. PORTHOS I don't get it. I just don't get it.
 CUT TO:
 INT. TAVERN - NIGHT
 83 Moments later.
 Porthos regales the Barmaids with a tale.
PORTHOS:「I said, 'A Queen is no different than a barmaid in the dark. Though less... practiced in the arts of pleasure...'」
narrator:The Barmaids accept his leering compliment with glee. But d_Artagnan isn't so sure. Porthos, with two Barmaids, bellows a reply.

PORTHOS:「If you're going to be a proper Musketeer, you'll have to learn the manly art of wenching. Right, ladies? The Barmaids heartily concur. D_Artagnan looks over Porthos' shoulder, to the dark-haired Barmaid seen previ- ously. Porthos follows his gaze, grins. PORTHOS Ahh, very good. Your first subject. But you'll need instruction. Watch closely. Porthos pulls one of the Barmaids to his chest, brings her lips toward his. PORTHOS The secret to wenching is the first kiss. For in that kiss, a lasting impression is made. If it is weak, she will think you are weak. And if it is comical, she will think you are a clown. With me? D_ARTAGNAN Weak... weak.
 Comical... clown.
 Very good.
 And as a Musketeer is never weak, and only rarely a clown, your first kiss must be all the things that you are. Like this... Porthos gives the Barmaid a powerful kiss.
 He breaks it, turns to d_Artagnan with a grin.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 83 PORTHOS You may speak first if you like, your name, her name, an endearment or two. But words are usually a waste of time.
ARAMIS:「Only if you don't know which words to say. All turn to regard Aramis. He'll play along too. Porthos reacts with delight. D_Artagnan with interest. Aramis continues: ARAMIS Words may make a more lasting impression than a thousand of Porthos' kisses. BARMAID (still reeling) Not likely. ARAMIS I'll demonstrate. Please.
 Sit beside me. Aramis' courtly behavior is as out of place in these en- virons as it is persuasive. The Barmaid slips from Porthos' lap, sits down on the bench beside him. Aramis does not touch her. He simply looks into her eyes... and begins to speak. ARAMIS 'Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate: Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, And summer's leash hath all too short a date; Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines, And often is his gold complexion dimmed; And every fair from fair sometimes declines, By chance, or nature's changing course untrimmed; But thy eternal summer shall not fade. (MORE) (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 (2)
 83 ARAMIS Nor lose possession of that fair thou owest, Nor shall death brag thou wanderest in his shade, When in eternal lines to time thou growest; So long as men can breathe, or eyes can see. So long lives this, and this gives life to thee.'
 The Barmaid, once skeptical, sits silently. Her face covered with tears. Aramis pauses, almost embarrassed by the outcome. He turns to d_Artagnan, cites:
ARAMIS:「Shakespeare. PORTHOS That's cheating. The Barmaid on his lap disagrees.」

narrator:BARMAID It's beautiful. D_Artagnan looks at the dark-haired Barmaid across the room. Porthos urges him on. PORTHOS Come on, d_Artagnan. We haven't got all night.
 D_Artagnan steps forward. The dark-haired Barmaid sees him coming and smiles. D_Artagnan stands before her, hesitates, not sure where to start. Then, remembering as best he can: D_ARTAGNAN 'Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou are move lovely and more tempest, er, more tempered...' (beat) Ahh, to hell with it --
 D_Artagnan takes the Barmaid into his arms, delivers a powerful kiss. As previously demonstrated. Porthos and Aramis smile proudly. The Barmaids cheer.
PORTHOS:「The boy's a natural. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 (3)
 83 ARAMIS So little time, so much to learn.
 D_Artagnan drains his flagon, indicates Athos sitting at a table by himself, scowling, working on his third bottle of Burgundy.
ARAMIS:「In all the years I've know him... I have never seen Athos smile.」
D_Artagnan:「Why is he sitting by himself? PORTHOS Athos takes his drinking seriously. Ignore him. He'll be his usual warm, charming self by morning. (calls out) Service! My lap is cold! A Barmaid scurries INTO
 VIEW. Porthos grabs her by the waist, adds the Barmaid
 to the one already sitting on his lap. The chair breaks
 beneath them, and all three go sprawling on the floor,
 laughing heartily.」

narrator:ATHOS
 84
 He remains lost in drink. D_Artagnan appears beside him. He hides his concern behind a cheerful attitude. D_ARTAGNAN Come join us. Athos pulls d_Artagnan down with a dark smile.
 He fills his flagon for him.
ATHOS:「You fight like a Musketeer. Let's see if you can drink like one.」
D_Artagnan:「I'll drink anything you put in front of me.」
ATHOS:「Famous last words. (raising his flagon) What shall we drink to?」
narrator:D_Artagnan notices the dark-haired Barmaid eyeing him across the room. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 84 D_ARTAGNAN Love?
 The word nearly makes Athos grimace. He stares at d_Artagnan for a long beat, then beyond. As if to look into another time and place. Finally:
ATHOS:「Love. (beat) Would you like to hear a story, d_Artagnan? A love story? Athos' voice reveals unexpected vulnerability, the pain he keeps inside. D_Artagnan is fascinated, moved. He nearly whispers:」

D_Artagnan:「Yes. Athos takes a long pull from the bottle of burgundy, wipes the blood red wine from his lips. ATHOS I once knew a man... one of the Counts of Berry. My native province. When the good Count was about your age, he fell in love with a visitor from Paris. A breathtaking girl of seventeen. She was more than beautiful, d_Artagnan. She was... intoxicating. And this man, the poor idiot, he married her. D_ARTAGNAN Isn't that what people do when they fall in love? ATHOS (sharply) Be quiet and listen. (beat) The Count took her to his castle and made her the first lady of the province. They were happy for a time, as happy as a man and a woman can be. Then one day, while riding in the woods, the girl was thrown from her horse, and knocked unconscious. The Count hurried to help her. Her dress was torn. (MORE) (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 (2)
 84 ATHOS On her her arm, the woman wore a gold band in the shape of a serpent. It was the only article of clothing she refused to remove. The Count's curiosity got the best of him. He reached over and slid down the gold band. He saw something on her arm... something she'd kept hidden 'til then...

D_Artagnan:「What? ATHOS The fleur d'lis. She'd been branded...」

narrator:ANOTHER ANGLE
 85 D_Artagnan reacts with shock. ATHOS The Count's angel turned out to be a murderess who escaped the Executioner's blade. She swore that she loved him. Swore that she had changed. And if he would just keep her secret, they would live a long life together. Athos pauses, imagines that life.
 The Count and his angel. ATHOS But the Count was young and he was stupid. He was tormented by the ridicule of his social class. And so he rejected her. For her lies and for her past. (beat) And turned her over to the authorities to be executed for the crime.
 Athos now turns his unflinching gaze on d_Artagnan. ATHOS But you see... his heart did not agree. The Count soon realized what she had meant to him. And what he had done. (MORE)
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 85 ATHOS That his... betrayal was far greater than her own. (beat) Soon after he foreswore the society that shaped him. Gave up his title. And was never seen again. D_ARTAGNAN He loved her.
ATHOS:「He killed her. It seemed like the same thing after a while.」
narrator:HOLD ON Athos for a long time.
 As he gathers up his pain, and puts it back again. Athos SMASHES open another BOTTLE. But the story has made d_Artagnan quite sober and a little sick to his stomach. He refuses another drink. ATHOS Good.
 More for me. PORTHOS Aramis -- play something with some blood in it! I feel like dancing! Aramis launches into something appropriate. Porthos and a Barmaid get up and begin a festive folk dance. Porthos is damned good. His joie de vivre is infectious and soon everyone in the inn is clapping and encouraging him. Every once in awhile, another WEAPON -- a dagger or something -- drops out of Porthos' clothing and hits the floor with a CLATTER.
 That's when Porthos, dancing with abandon, spins out of control, trips and falls on Athos' table, crushing it to the floor.
 Porthos lies in the wreckage, staring up. Athos, totally unperturbed, looks down and offers him the bottle.
PORTHOS:「Care to dance, Athos? ATHOS Only if I can lead.」
narrator:Porthos blinks in amazement at Athos' grim face, then breaks out laughing. PORTHOS Aramis!
 Athos made a joke!
 ANGLE
 86 The Innkeeper comes down the stairs wearing a nightshirt and a sleepy expression.
INNKEEPER:「Excuse me, gentlemen.」
D_Artagnan:「Were we making too much noise? INNKEEPER You told me to wake you at dawn.」

narrator:EXT. RURAL LANDSCAPE - DAY
 87 The sun rises, casts long shadows across a sparkling dew- wet field. D_Artagnan and the Musketeers ride INTO FRAME, continuing their journey to Calais. D_Artagnan squints ahead, wincing with every bump. Porthos grins. PORTHOS Beautiful morning, eh, d_Artagnan?
 D_Artagnan is terribly hung-over from the night's carousing. He looks like he could puke at any moment. So that's exactly why Porthos shouts to him and says...
PORTHOS:「You know,
 d_Artagnan, it's not a good idea
 to travel on an empty stomach.
 You really should have had a big
 portion of those sheep's brains...」
narrator:D_Artagnan covers his mouth.
 Porthos laughs good- naturedly. D_ARTAGNAN My head feels like it's filled with the King's marching band. Would you please stop whistling? (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 87 PORTHOS Whistling?
 I'm not whistling.
D_Artagnan:「Well someone is.」

PORTHOS:「to others) The Barmaid's kiss left him dizzy. ARAMIS I hear it too. It sounds like... ATHOS (knows immediatley) A connon ball.」
narrator:Athos is cut off by an EAR-PIERCING WHISTLE as a CANNON BALL drops out of the sky and STRIKES the ground nearby, sending up a tremendous EXPLOSION. PORTHOS I hate cannon balls.
 Another BALL EXPLODES into the ground in front of them. Their horses rear up in fear, threatening to dump them out of their saddles. As the Musketeers and d_Artagnan struggle to control their horses, they look back and see an old castle atop a distant hill. A group of men operate two rusted cannons, left over from some long-forgotten war. The Musketeers barely calm their horses, when another BALL comes SCREAMING their way, IMPACTING a few feet away. As dirt rains upon them:
ARAMIS:「to d_Artagnan) How's your head now?」
D_Artagnan:「I'm beginning to wish the Cardinal had chopped if off.」

narrator:RIVER
 99 A wild ride down the ROARING RIVER. Porthos clinging to his horse for dear life. Aramis keeping an eye on his fellow Musketeer... and the deep rapids up ahead. Through twists and turns, walls of white water, huge boulders, and gyrating whirlpools... Aramis and Porthos finally reach a quiet pool, a leafy shore beyond. They lead their horses from the water, step toward dry land... and see yet another (or perhaps the same) patrol of Cardinal's Guards. Waiting, swords drawn, for their arrival. Porthos looks down at his latest sash -- destroyed like the others. Aramis draws his saber, mutters.
ARAMIS:「A nice relaxing boat ride... (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 99 And with that, Aramis and Porthos charge towards the Guards.
 CUT TO: 100
 EXT. DENSE FOREST - DAY
 100
 Cool, clear water. WIDEN to reveal d_Artagnan and Athos at a shallow pond, watering their horses. The forest around them is dark and primeval.
D_Artagnan:「Do you think we've lost them? ATHOS They'll catch up eventually.」

narrator:To the point, as always. D_Artagnan pauses to look at their beautiful surroundings, remembers: D_ARTAGNAN My father used to hunt in a forest like this. He promised to take me on my tenth birthday. I don't know why he picked that year. Something about a boy becoming a man. I'd lay in bed at night and imagine it, just the two of us. But he died before I could go with him. Athos is unmoved, or so it would seem.
 He replies with quiet cynicism: ATHOS Well. You have your boyhood wish at last. The dark forest. The thrill of the hunt. The nearness of death. Only d_Artagnan is the hunted, not the hunter.
D_Artagnan:「I'd be proud to die for my King. ATHOS I just wanted to save you from the life of a Musketeer. You don't have to go looking for experience, d_Artagnan. It'll find you soon enough. And when it does -- it will mark you forever.」

narrator:ANOTHER ANGLE
 102 Athos and d_Artagnan GALLOP through the dense forest. The horesmen FIRE PISTOLS as they ride. A SHOT grazes d_Artagnan's shoulder, he staggers, retains his mount. Athos leads them up a hillside, a series of boulders at the top. The climb is fast and treacherous, GUNFIRE all around them. Athos' horse is struck by a bullet, stag- gers forward... and collapses just as they reach the crest. D_Artagnan leaps off his horse, takes cover with Athos behind the boulders. Athos takes aim, FIRES a SHOT, and kills one of the horsemen below. The others curse, leap from their mounts, seek cover. SHOTS WHIZ back and forth like angry hornets. Stalemate, but not for long. They are badly outnumbered. The horsemen creep slowly up the hillside, from tree to tree. Athos turns to d_Artagnan as he reloads: ATHOS I'll hold them off for as long as I can. Go on without me. D_ARTAGNAN I can't leave you here. Not like this.
ATHOS:「Ride to Calais and stop the Cardinal's agent.」
D_Artagnan:「Athos... I can't.」

narrator:Athos points his pistol at d_Artagnan. ATHOS Go, or I'll kill you myself.
 A few days ago, d_Artagnan would have obeyed without question. Fearful, if nothing else. But not here, not now.
D_Artagnan:「A duel then. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 102 ATHOS You're insane.
D_Artagnan:「We never finished the first.」

narrator:ATHOS AND HIS POV
 103 Heads. D_Artagnan is to remain.
 Athos looks up without missing a beat. ATHOS Tails.
 I stay.
 Athos returns the coin to his doublet without giving d_Artagnan a chance to see. D_ARTAGNAN But...? Athos reloads, FIRES below. D_Artagnan recognizes the kindness he has received. That Athos cannot fully express it. And that there is no use arguing with him.
D_Artagnan:「At least take my pistol.」
narrator:He gives it to Athos.
 They clasp hands. ATHOS (gruff; yet proud) Don't let us down... Musketeer. There are tears in d_Artagnan's eyes.
 He knows Athos hasn't got a chance.
D_Artagnan:「a choke of emotion) I'll never forget you.」
ATHOS:「Go! Athos turns away, SHOOTS at another horseman.
 D_Artagnan runs to his MOUNT, GALLOPS away.」

narrator:D_ARTAGNAN
 104 He rides, straining to hear the sounds of GUNFIRE. As long as the SHOTS continue, he knows Athos is alive. Abruptly... the SHOTS CEASE. D_Artagnan swallows his heart, and rides.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. ROAD TO CALAIS - NIGHT
 105
 A lonely stretch of road, illuminated by moonlight. A signpost announces: CALAI 15 LEAGUES. An exhausted HORSE CLOPS INTO VIEW, its rider half-conscious in the saddle. It is d_Artagnan. He can barely keep his eyes open. Suddenly, d_Artagnan passes out, tumbles from his saddle, and lands in the middle of the road. He opens his eyes once -- a sky filled with stars -- then closes them. We hear HORSES, and the CREAK of a CARRIAGE APPROACHING. The DRIVER brakes, and the horses are brought to a halt just short of trampling d_Artagnan. In the darkness, we can make out other shapes, rugged men on horseback, bodyguards to the carriage's passenger. Milady de Winter. MILADY (O.S.) What is it, Henri? HENRI (DRIVER) There's a body in the road, Milady. MILADY (O.S.) Be careful. Pistols are cocked.
 Henri's shadow falls across d_Artagnan's body. HENRI It's a young man. He appears to be injured. We hear the CARRIAGE DOOR OPEN.
 FOOTSTEPS to d_Artagnan's side.
MILADY:「O.S.) My, what a handsome boy. Put him inside with me.」
narrator:Strong hands grasp d_Artagnan and lift him from the cold ground. CUT TO:
 D_ARTAGNAN'S POV - BLACK SCREEN
 106 Out of the darkness, a face appears,
 BLURRY and OBSCURED. It FILLS the SCREEN, slowly swimming
 INTO FOCUS. It is Milady de Winter, even more beautiful
 in CLOSEUP. Familiar, and no doubt deadly, ivory
 combs gleam in her hair. She smiles warmly.
MILADY:「Welcome back.
 Did you dream?」
narrator:ANOTHER ANGLE
 107
 reveals the interior of a bed chamber at a roadside inn. D_Artagnan, regaining his senses, finds himself propped up in a large bed. He blinks into the face of Milady who sits at the edge. His eyes widen with recognition, faint awe. D_ARTAGNAN You. MILADY Have we met?

D_Artagnan:「I... saw you in Paris. D_Artagnan notices that his shoulder has been bandaged. He looks around the large room. A FIRE ROARS in the grate. Food and drink have been set upon a table. D_Artagnan continues, still groggy, uncertain: D_ARTAGNAN Where am I...? MILADY This is Calais.
 with a jolt) Calais! (muttered; to self) The ship... Tuesday at midnight... D_Artagnan leaps out of bed. Then realizes he is stark naked. Milady smiles. D_Artagnan gathers a bedsheet around him. D_ARTAGNAN (frantic) Where are my clothes?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 107 MILADY Filthy. I'm having them cleaned. Is something wrong? D_ARTAGNAN What day is it? What time?!
 D_Artagnan runs to a window, and throws open the shutters. Beyond: the harbor lights of the Port of Calais. MILADY It's Tuesday, near nine. D_ARTAGNAN Nine?
 Are you sure?
 Somewhere in the night, a BELL TOLLS the HOUR.
 Milady smiles. MILADY Quite sure. D_Artagnan relaxes slightly.
 Milady rises from the bed. She wears a sky blue dressing
 gown, something soft and silken beneath it. D_Artagnan
 reacts perceptibly. En- joying his discomfort, Milady
 crosses the room, joins him at the window. MILADY Are you in a hurry? D_ARTAGNAN (after a beat) How did I... get here? MILADY I found you in the road. Discarded. Like an unwanted kitten. Do you have a name or shall I make one up for you?
D_Artagnan:「nervous) My name is d_Artagnan.」

narrator:INT. MILADY'S CHAMBER AT INN - NIGHT
 110
 D_Artagnan and Milady face each other on a rug in front of the roaring fire. The plate of food between them is empty. They drink wine from goblets. D_Artagnan drains his cup, and stares into the burning embers. Milady speaks quietly, with seeming compassion: MILADY You are sad.
D_Artagnan:「I was thinking about my friends. Milady knows when to speak, and when to listen. She looks at d_Artagnan with gentle expression, allows him to continue. The warm room, the wine, her kindness. All conspire to loosen his tongue. D_Artagnan speaks quietly, from the heart:」

narrator:ON D_ARTAGNAN
 111 He cannot continue.
 Constance, the hour, a confusion he cannot deny. D_ARTAGNAN I'm sorry -- D_Artagnan pulls back -- just as Milady's arm arcs down toward his neck, holding a long sharp stick pin, almost a dagger, attached to an ivory comb. D_Artagnan sees it in the nick of time, parries with his free hand, knocking the dagger to the rug. Milady leaps after it, hands out- stretched. D_Artagnan follows, battles for the dagger, stunned with fear and surprise:
D_Artagnan:「What're you doing?! Have you lost your mind?!」
MILADY:「You came to Calais to stop a spy from sailing to England.」
narrator:D_Artagnan nearly chokes on the knowledge. Milady is the messenger he is seeking. He grabs the dagger, rolls to the side. Milady staggers after, the shoulder of her negligee rips open. D_Artagnan sees the soft white flesh, reacts with shock, recognition -- she bears the brand of the fleur de lis. The infamous mark of the murderess. Just as Athos told it to him.
 Not so long ago.
D_Artagnan:「My God... (CONTINUED)」

narrator:ANGLE TO INCLUDE MILADY AND HER POV
 113 The innkeeper, roused
 from sleep, and wearing a night- shirt, is engaged in
 urgent conversation with Armand de Winter -- the son of
 the man Milady killed in Paris. The innkeeper shakes his
 head. Armand grabs him by the collar.
 D_Artagnan sees Milady's reaction -- surprise, impatience, and just a hint of fear. Milady commands: MILADY The back stairs. Hurry! They change directions. As he is pulled away, d_Artagnan catches a glimpse of Armand de Winter below.
 CUT TO: 114
 EXT. INN - NIGHT
 114
 Milady's coach emerges from the carriage house, speeds away in the direction of the harbor. In the driver's seat, Henri whips the horses, driving them onward. Milady's seven bodyguards follow on horseback.
 CUT TO:
 INT. CARRIAGE - NIGHT
 115 D_Artagnan and Parker sit across from Milady. Her face betrays faint doubt, apprehension. Emotions she is not used to feeling, let alone displaying to the world around her. D_Artagnan sees
 his opening... and speaks: D_ARTAGNAN The man at the inn... what did he want? MILADY (hollow laugh) Justice. Honor. Revenge. D_ARTAGNAN Why?
MILADY:「He is the brother of my late husband, Lord de Winter. He blames me for de Winter's death. He thinks I murdered him. D_ARTAGNAN Did you murder your husband, Milady? MILADY What do you think?」
narrator:A beat. D_Artagnan studies her pale, beautiful face. Remembers Athos' tale of love and loss. D_ARTAGNAN I think he's not the first husband you killed. (off her look) I once knew a man, one of the Counts of Berry. He told me a story... of beauty and danger. He was the bravest man I've ever known. And the saddest.
MILADY:「I know...」

narrator:The truth strikes home. Milady cannot conceal it. But she does not react with anger or scorn. D_Artagnan has reminded her of the one thing in the world that still touches her heart. D_Artagnan looks at her with a steady gaze. Milady cannot hold it, she turns to the carriage window.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. CALAIS - NIGHT
 116 Milady's carriage turns down a steep lane that leads to the harbor. The fog is so thick that only the masts of the schooners can be seen, poking out of the gloom. Their lanterns glow gloomily. The carriage comes to a stop.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. HARBOR OF CALAIS - NIGHT
 117
 The lights of the harbor are muted by low-hanging fog. We see the outline of a ship waiting at the pier. Henri helps Milady out of the carriage. D_Artagnan follows. Milady's bodyguards dismount, six of them. A motley bunch of sinister killers. They look around the pier, ready for any encounter. D_Artagnan takes in his surroundings.
 There is a mel- ancholy air about him. MILADY What's the matter, d_Artagnan? Still hoping for your friends to ride to the rescue? D_ARTAGNAN My friends are dead.
MILADY:「Well. If it's any consolation, you'll soon be joining them. Milady's return to form does not surprise. Parker shoves d_Artagnan toward the fog-enshrouded ship. A name can be made out on her barnacled hull. Persephone.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 EXT. PIER - NIGHT
 118
 Henri calls out to the ship, which is little more than an outline in the fog, her boarding gangplank leading to the soupy darkness of her deck.
HENRI:「We are the Countess de Winter's party, arrived from Paris. Permission to come aboard.」
narrator:There is no reply.
 Closely guarded by Parker, d_Artagnan strains to see. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 118 VOICE (O.S.) Permission granted.
 Milady nods to Henri. He steps up the narrow gangplank, followed by Milady, d_Artagnan, Parker, and the six bodyguards.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. DECK OF THE PERSEPHONE - NIGHT
 119
 The deck is filled with swirling fog. Henri peers into the gloom as he climbs aboard, followed by the others. He addresses one of the crew, a tall figure standing nearby.
HENRI:「Take us to your captain. The tall figure does not reply, nor does he move.
 Henri demands: HENRI What are you, deaf? Henri goes to shake the man. He grabs his arm, and the man pitches forward, falling face first on the deck. Henri jumps back in alarm. Milady and the others react. BODYGUARD What is this? Milady's Bodyguards rush around the deck, confront the other silent silhouettes. They, like the tall figure... are dead. The limp bodies topple at their touch. The Bodyguards shout alarm and panic:」

narrator:BODYGUARDS Dead!
 They're all dead!
PORTHOS:「O.S.) Well I certainly hope so. After all that hard work.」
narrator:That's when Porthos, and Aramis -- come swooping down from above like avenging angels. They swing on the ends of ropes, slicing through the air, then dropping feet first on top of Milady's Bodyguards. D_Artagnan stands open-mouthed, as his three friends draw their swords.
ARAMIS:「calling to him) You look like you've seen a ghost.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 119 D_ARTAGNAN Two of them.
PORTHOS:「Remind me to tell you the story of horses that could fly above raging waters. A heroic tale of love, death, and Musketeers. Suitable for the general public. Porthos wades into the Bodyguards, at play, shouting as he goes. PORTHOS All right then. All those who wish to die, raise your hands! Don't by shy, there's plenty to go around! D_Artagnan grabs a sword from the deck, turns to join the fray. And finds himself face to face with Parker, the Indo-Chinese bodyguard. Parker has two Oriental swords spinning in his hands. One knocks d_Artagnan's sword out of his hand. D_Artagnan does a back flip but falls on the slippery deck. As Parker is about to chop d_Artagnan's head off, his face grimaces as he is lifted on a sword OUT OF FRAME. In the mist Athos is revealed! ATHOS Sorry I'm late. Did I miss anything? D_Artagnan almost cries with happiness.
 He leaps to his feet and embraces Athos. D_ARTAGNAN I thought you were dead.」
ATHOS:「Keep your mind on the mission, d_Artagnan.」
narrator:He winks at d_Artagnan, returns to the fray. D_Artagnan follows. The Musketeers confront Milady's evil Bodyguards in the night and fog. Athos with brutal perfection. Porthos with strange weapons and a healthy sense of the absurd. And Aramis with familiar grace and artistry -- and a marked determination to disable, not kill, his opponents.
 Milady views the latter with alarm. As the battle rages around her, she retreats into the shadows. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 (2)
 119 Athos and d_Artagnan find themselves fighting side by side. Athos observes d_Artagnan's technique -- the usual frenetic windmill of feint and thrust -- with a frown. ATHOS Boy, it's a miracle you're still alive fighting like that.
D_Artagnan:「What do you mean?」

narrator:BACK TO SCENE
 123 Athos drives several Bodyguards back with his sword, notices d_Artagnan working his way towards him.
ATHOS:「Did you find the Cardinal's spy?」
D_Artagnan:「Yes. ATHOS Did you kill him?
 Athos.
 The spy... is a woman. (CONTINUED)」

narrator:INT. ANTEROOM - DAY
 139 Richelieu stands in an anteroom just off the procession, he watches the King and Queen as they walk, speaks quietly, to himself: RICHELIEU I'm not sure which is sadder... to die so young. Or to die a King. Richelieu turns from the procession. Speaks to Rochefort who pauses in the shadowy alcove behind him.
RICHELIEU:「France will not go wanting. A new King will sit on the throne. The true King after all...」
narrator:He says it quiet fervor, the dream at long last within reach. Then, as if to reassure: (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 139 RICHELIEU Is everything ready?
ROCHEFORT:「Yes, Your Eminence.」
RICHELIEU:「Are you sure? ROCHEFORT I'd stake my life on it, Your Eminence. RICHELIEU (a dark beat) Rest assured, Captain. You have.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 EXT. GROUNDS OUTSIDE LOUVRE - DAY
 140 The balcony has been colorfully decorated. The crowd focuses its attention on the empty space where the King will soon appear. Below, the entrance to the Palace is protected by a double line of the Cardinal's Guards, resplendent in their crimson tunics. It would take an army to get past them.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. NEAR LOUVRE - DAY
 141
 The streets leading to the Palace are clogged with people, all pushing and straining to get closer. D_Artagnan and the three Musketeers arrive on horseback, are forced to dismount. They push through the crowd, trying to reach the Palace, afraid that they will be too late. Athos barks orders as they struggle forward:
ATHOS:「to d_Artagnan) Look through the surrounding area. We'll try to reach the King...」
D_Artagnan:「But...? ATHOS Go!」

narrator:INT. GREAT HALL AND THRONE ROOM - DAY
 162 A short time later. The battle is over. The Musketeers have won. On the dais, Louis and Anne confront Richelieu who is a prisoner now, guarded by several Musketeers. Louis holds the recovered treaty in his hands.
 D_Artagnan and the three Musketeers stand nearby.
RICHELIEU:「Your Majesty, that document is an obvious forgery. I am clearly the victim of a conspiracy designed and perpetuated by these three Musketeers.」
narrator:Richelieu assumes a trustworthy pose, one familiar to both King and Queen. LOUIS This is a complicated matter, Your Eminence, affecting both France and the crown... A beat. As all wonder if Richelieu will manage to elude blame after all. But Louis continues with quiet author- ity, just a trace of humor. As King, and as a man. LOUIS And so, until such time as I and my advisors -- (gestures toward Anne; the Musketeers) -- can determine the whole truth of the matter. I invite you to await our decision in the comfort of... the Bastille.
 Musketeers close in around the Cardinal.
 He fumes, protests.
RICHELIEU:「You can't do this to me.
 I'm the Cardinal of France. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 162 LOUIS (never more certain) And I am its King. Shouts of "Long live the King!
 Long live the King!"
LOUIS:「And as King... I hereby reinstate the Musketeers. A tremendous cheer is heard from all. Richelieu is led from the room. He pauses in front of d_Artagnan. RICHELIEU Congratulations, Monsieur d_Artagnan. I'll be keeping an eye on you. D_ARTAGNAN (unphased) Thank you, Your Eminence.
 I'll be watching you, too. Richelieu smiles his crocodile smile. Followed by guards, he turns and strides away, hands clasped behind his back, scarlet robes billowing behind him. Louis turns to the Musketeers.
 He indicates d_Artagnan.
 Is this the young man who saved my life? Porthos puts a hand on d_Artagnan's shoulder. PORTHOS His name's d_Artagnan, Sire.
 Approach, d_Artagnan.」
narrator:D_Artagnan's heart pounds as he draws closer to King and Queen. Then he remembers, reaches into his doublet. And turns to the Queen.
D_Artagnan:「I have something that belongs to ... Your Majesty... D_Artagnan produces the bracelet he found on the country road. He holds it out to her. The King wonders, the Queen smiles. (CONTINUED)」
