narrator:got here, and why you've been charged.
 DAVID'S VOICE What do you want to know? I was about to turn 33. I ran three magazines, and a world-wide publishing house. On most days I actually fooled myself into believing it would last forever.
 INT. BATHROOM - MORNING
 David checks himself in the mirror. Seizes and plucks that same gray hair.
 DAVID'S VOICE Isn't that what being young is about? Believing secretly that you would be the one person, in the history of man, who would live forever?
 INT. BEDROOM - MORNING
 David enters, reaching for his wallet, repeating the morning ritual. A figure stirs in the bed behind him. She leans upward, wearing David's college basketball tank for a pajama-top. She's warm and wicked, a mildly reformed party girl, the kind of girl first-novels are written about. She is JULIANNA GIANNI,25.
JULIANNA:「Where you going so early?」
David Aames:「slightly self-conscious) Hey, don't record any more messages on my alarm--clock, okay?」

JULIANNA:「Why not?」
David Aames:「I'll think we're married or something.」

narrator:DAVID (O.S.) (exiting, from other room) How's your cold?
JULIANNA:「Still there. How's yours?」
narrator:DAVID (U.S..) I guess you took my mind off it. She pulls a pink pill-box purse from the nightstand, withdraws a multi-colored phone.
JULIANNA:「Reyna, it's Julianna. I missed my audition. (dramatic, like Bette Davis) I lost my head. Listen, I have to go. (whispers) I'm with David.」
narrator:INT. KITCHEN - MORNING
 David in his steel-and-linoleum bachelor kitchen. Julie swings into view. Her blouse is unbuttoned two buttons too many, down to mid-chest. She gives him a kiss on the cheek and lingers. David grabs a racquetball bag, talks to the next. room.
David Aames:「Help yourself to whatever you want. Set the alarm, Maria will clean up. Lock up when you go. And... you are the greatest.」
JULIANNA:「Bye "honey!"」
David Aames:「Bye "honey!" I'll call you later.」
JULIANNA:「When? When?」

David Aames:「Soon! They have a comfortable, healthy, mutually satisfying, gloriously superficial relationship.」

narrator:INT./EXT. NEW YORK CITY GARAGE/STREETS - DAY
 David is about to enter the green sports car, then thinks better of it. He fires up a knock-around beater car from his collection. He drives into the street which is, comfortingly, now full of people. We hear R.E.M.'s "All The Right Friends."
 EXT. NEW YORK SIDE-STREETS - DAY
 David drives the crowded streets.
 It all seems more poignant today. Life is good again.
 EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY
 David pulls up to a lower-end apartment, checks his watch. Enter the hung-over BRIAN SHELBY,
 30ish. In a world of acquaintances, Brian is a true friend.
 He has all the qualities of Abe Lincoln and, much to his chagrin, the looks too. He hops in the car with racquetball bag.
David Aames:「Did you reserve the court?」
BRIAN:「Easy. I can't handle heavy conversation at this ungodly hour.」
David Aames:「I'm sorry to do this early. I gotta be done by 10. Car phone rings. David checks Caller ID - it's his office. He clicks on.」
narrator:ASSISTANT VOICE
 (RACHEL) You're not going to make the 8:45, are you?

David Aames:「How did you find me?」
narrator:RACHEL'S VOICE David Aames, you have to check the colors of the letters for the new issue of Rise.
David Aames:「What are the colors?」

narrator:
David Aames:「Let, me think about it.」
narrator:RACHEL'S VOICE David, please. Don't be late for the ten o'clock with the board.
David Aames:「Okay, but. don't tell anybody where I am I don't care if God calls. I'm very busy.」
BRIAN:「Can't you just get rid of that board?」
David Aames:「The Seven Dwarves? No.」
BRIAN:「Those people drive you nuts.」
David Aames:「And that was the desire of my father, who hired them.」

BRIAN:「I know someone was there when I called. You had that tone. (imitates nasal phone voice) Oh, no man, I've got a cold. I'm hanging in tonight.」
David Aames:「shaky defense) I had a cold. I was alone.」
BRIAN:「Fine. You can do whatever you want with your life -」
David Aames:「Thanks.」

narrator:
BRIAN:「but one day you'll know what love truly is. It's the sour and the sweet. And I know sour which allows me to appreciate the sweet.」
David Aames:「Julie Gi.anni is a friend. Sometimes we sleep together. Brian howls in pain, like a hurt dog.
 What --」
BRIAN:「My dream girl... Julie Gianni... is your... fuck buddy. Brian emits another pained howl. David reaches over to change the music.」
David Aames:「What do you want to listen to?」
BRIAN:「Slow down, man.」
David Aames:「What have we got here - Barcelona, Looper... Radiohead? Brian freezes at what he sees.」
BRIAN:「Look out! Look out! David turns and sees he's hurtling into the back of a car stopped just in front of him. Clenching he hits the brakes, narrowly avoiding a high-speech collision. And then... to his right... another car comes hurtling toward him... and stops within an inch of deadly impact.
 There is an awful moment, as the second car blares on the horn. Traffic continues, but the lingering feeling of dread and confusion is still in the air.
 Fuck!」
David Aames:「annoyed) We almost died.」

narrator:
BRIAN:「I know. My own death was right there in front of me, and you know what happened? Your life flashed before my eyes.」
David Aames:「How was it?」
BRIAN:「Almost worth dying for. Pedestrians continue walking around the honking tangled mass of the near-.accident.」
narrator:EXT. AAMES PUBLICATIONS - DAY
 David meets Peter Brown and RACHEL, his second assistant, at. the front of the well-appointed headquarters of Aames Publications. Aames hops out of car and heads into the building.
 INT. AAMES PUBLICATIONS - DAY
 David Aames Jr. turns down the corridor of Rise Magazine, a male youth-culture-style magazine. Rachel gives him daily tabloid reports, continues with the essentials.
 RACHEL The art department needs a decision on the colors. Yellow- and- red, or white? And the board is pissed you're late.
David Aames:「You changed your hair. David taps on the window of the art department, in panic over several cover mock-ups. He gives a presidential thumbs-up, moves on. They look at each other, trying to decipher if the thumbs-up was a decision.」

narrator:A MAN'S VOICE Do you dream about the Board, David? The Seven Dwarves, as you call them? David walks into the office. Framed original photos from album covers co-mingle with a splash of cultured art and books. Seven very-interested and very-alert looking Older Executives wait.
David Aames:「V.0.) Sneezy, Bashful, Sleepy, Happy, Doc, Dopey, and of course, Grumpy.」
narrator:GRUMPY (skeptical) How was Aspen?
David Aames:「playful, mock drama) Good. Now I want answers, and I want them now. (pause) How's it going? He gestures charmingly, easily, and bows with apology over his lateness. All are happy to see him. Sort of.」

narrator:Portrait of CURTIS McCABE, 52.
 Doctor of Psychiatry, prison division. He's far too wily to spend the currency of his brilliance just yet. It's too early in their relationship. He stands tall, leaning on a steel desk, polishing his glasses with end of his coat.
David Aames:「It's a nightmare either way.」
MCCABE:「Is that how do you explain what's happened to you?」
David Aames:「What --」
MCCABE:「What happened to your face?」
David Aames:「I'm not talking to you anymore.」
MCCABE:「And you don't want to show me your face.」
David Aames:「No.」
MCCABE:「Do you know why you're here?」
David Aames:「sarcastic) The conversation, the coffee --」
MCCABE:「David - the part where we parry and joust, and get to know each other bit-by-bit... we're going to have to skip it. You've been charged with murder. In four weeks, a judge will determine your fate based on what I write. You will talk to me --」

David Aames:「There is no murder! It didn't happen! I don't have to talk to anybody! A Contentious Prison Guard (AARON) swings his feet down and gets up from watching a 17-inch television on a stool. He exits into the bigger room to quiet down David Aames.」

narrator:Slight push in to show the television show he is watching, and we see a snippet of "To Kill A Mockingbird."
 AARON You want me to help -
David Aames:「Get the fuck away from me.」
narrator:AARON Take it easy, sunshine.
David Aames:「Get the fuck away from me.」
narrator:AARON Take it easy, Face. Your whole story is full of holes! With great power, McCabe advances on the guard. His presence, when he turns on the switches, is considerable.
 MCCABE. Stop! Please leave. Right now. I'll take responsibility.
 AARON (whispering, exiting) I'm gonna get you, Daddy's boy little freak.
David Aames:「My parents are dead, you fuck!」
MCCABE:「Enough! The Contentious Guard leaves.
 Is it true?」
David Aames:「sing-song) Good cop... bad cop.」
MCCABE:「That you're a Daddy's boy?」
David Aames:「in darkness, by rote) Primer on David Aames, Senior. My father was not built for the 21st Century. He never ate at」

narrator:McDonald's, not once, and never watched television. Yet his biggest magazine is still TV Digest. He and my mother threw the grandest parties of the literary world. He ballooned, jumped from planes, sought adventure... His autobiography is the manual for every cutthroat publisher in New York. It's called Defending the Kingdom.
MCCABE:「I've read it. Page 127.
 "David Junior was a delight as a child." Did I miss something here? Is that all he wrote about you?」
David Aames:「I don't think he ever got over the fact that I was terrified of heights. And when he and my mother were run over by a drunken teenager on New Year's Eve, ten years ago... David Aames moves closer to the light. We see a strange bland expression of his mask, at first other--worldly... and then more clearly.
 he left the keys to the Kingdom to me...
 51% control,
 49% going to a group of seven board members who all thought they were first in line.」
MCCABE:「And you believe the Board, the Seven Dwarves, put you here to take control of your company.」
David Aames:「What do you care?」

narrator:
David Aames:「If I talk, you'll just think I'm crazy. McCabe gathers his things.」
MCCABE:「With all the respect I can offer a man wearing a latex mask and spouting conspiracy theories, David, trust me - you've crossed that bridge.」
David Aames:「Fine. Enjoy your dinner. Somehow the lilt in McCabe's voice draws him closer.」

narrator:INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT/BACK ROOM OFF KITCHEN - NIGHT
 From the darkened back room, David Aames appears with ice, and re-enters his party.
David Aames:「Who needs ice? Aames moves swirls is more like it - through into his party, which is nicely underway. Upscale. Modern. Part literary crowd. Part fashion crowd.
 He's great in a crowd. Surrounded by people, David Aames comes alive.」
narrator:DAVID MOVES THROUGH PARTY catching the attention of a model.
 (LYNETTE)
 LYNETTE David! Happy Birthday.
David Aames:「Jesus, you have the greatest taste in shoes I've ever seen. Bar none. Anywhere. A Woman Caterer in Whites
 (EMMA) slips by with a knowing smile.」
narrator:EMMA THE CATERER The old place sure looks more crowded with people in it.
David Aames:「Emma, do you know Lynette?」

narrator:amazing prototype. They'd love an article on it if you like it... David nods, still focused on Sofia. Suddenly, he finds he can't take his eyes off her.
 PETER BROWN and happy birthday, sir.
 ANGLE ON FRONT ENTRANCE as David arrives to greet Brian and his guest.
BRIAN:「Hey man. Happy birthday and all the usual shit people say to each other. How you doing?」
David Aames:「Livin' the dream, baby. Livin' the dream. The two friends hug. David shares a quick glance with Brian's date, who still burdened with coat.」
BRIAN:「to Sofia, as in 'meet the notorious...') Meet David Aames.」
David Aames:「can't help but flirt) And to what do I owe this pleasure, the pleasure of --」
SOFIA:「playful) -- the pleasure of Sofia. Serrano.」
BRIAN:「We met today at the library, if you can believe that --」
SOFIA:「I'm sorry about my coat. It's too big for your closet.」
BRIAN:「we were both pretending to be intellectuals.」
David Aames:「No no, I think it's amazing. I love your coat.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「I overdressed. I mean I underdressed.」
BRIAN:「I'll just continue like you're both actually listening to me.」
SOFIA:「to David) Do you have another room to put it in?」
BRIAN:「invisible, re: their chemistry) I have ceased to exist.」
David Aames:「Well, Madison Square Garden is nearby, it might fit there.」
SOFIA:「shoves David playfully, as in touche) Happy Birthday. Her upbeat physicality is intoxicating. Sofia hands David her present.」
BRIAN:「We picked it out together. Neither look at Brian. Brian takes a breath. He's been here before.」
David Aames:「Thank you.」
BRIAN:「We picked it out together. We...」
SOFIA:「Welcome.」
BRIAN:「Stop flirting and open it.」
David Aames:「Okay.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「Okay.」
David Aames:「I'll leave this upstairs. David exits. They are left to consider his personal charisma.」
narrator:ANGLE ON A HOLOGRAPHIC DISPLAY CONNECTED TO STEREO An odd and disarmingly beautiful display of Coltrane performing "My Favorite Things" in David's living room. Sofia passes a hand through Coltrane's image, admires it.
 ON DAVID David is approached by THOMAS TIPP, a Brit, and an Associate board-member at Aames Publications. Tipp is ten years older than David, and he is the rarest of birds. A sentimental lawyer. And at the moment he's a bit drunk.
David Aames:「Hey Tommy. David moves to address him so he can still track Sofia.」
TIPP:「Hey. Listen to me. Don't blow me off. I'm all packed, I'm going back to London and I understand. You put me up for that other attorney's job, so you didn't have to fire me. A classy move, and your father would have done the same ---」
David Aames:「It's okay, Tommy --」

narrator:
TIPP:「But they're going to find a way to get you out. They're lined up for your office - David scans the room. Beneath the good cheer, he sees the other layer. Lying. Disloyalty. All part of the institution he enjoys forgetting exists. Each word bashes his soul.
 your job. Your life. Your position. They are working day and night. to cheat you out of your 51% vote. And they are going to sell this tradition, this tradition of words, so they can eat at a better cafeteria. And what they don't know is this - (gestures grandly to books that surround them) - people will read again. David's gaze falls upon Sofia, who is looking directly at him. And for one blinding moment, something passes between them. She looks away. He feels saved.」
David Aames:「interrupting with finality) I got it.」

narrator:
David Aames:「extracting himself) Two's enough -」
TIPP:「Don ' t be- (immediately) Okay. Forgive me. I still believe in this family. Even if it's only you. David continues tracking Sofia as he slips over to Peter Brown.」
David Aames:「Get Tipp out of here, drive him home, and in the morning tell him he's re-hired with a 50% raise. Set up a meeting with the other attorneys. I'm going to be in early tomorrow -- (a look from Peter Brown) -- earlier than usual.」
narrator:INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 David enters, shuts the door and sets Sofia's present down. A party dress is on his bed.
JULIANNA:「Hello handsome. He turns to see Julie Gianni in the bathroom doorway, wrapped in a comforter.
 I've come to wish you happy birthday.」
David Aames:「I didn't invite you, Julie.」
JULIANNA:「Yeah, that was a little weird -」
David Aames:「But that's how it works with parties. You have to be invited.」

narrator:
David Aames:「Is that good?」
JULIANNA:「Two is good. Three is very good. But four -」
David Aames:「fishing for a compliment) Four is pretty good?」
JULIANNA:「No, four is... four is... just hold me.」
David Aames:「Four is what?」
JULIANNA:「Hold me, and then I'll leave, and you can go talk to that cute brunette.」
David Aames:「Four is what?」
JULIANNA:「I don't want to meet your fancy friends. I knew 'em all back when I was fancy too. He holds her. They talk in between friendly kisses.」
David Aames:「Four is what? She pulls away, and talks plainly to him.」
JULIANNA:「She looks like a moth, David.」
David Aames:「A moth?」

narrator:She kisses him again. David very gently, and skillfully resists. She gets the message.
JULIANNA:「When will you call me? And don't say soon. I hate it when you say "soon."」
narrator:INT. PARTY -- NIGHT
 Sofia eyes a framed smashed guitar handsomely mounted in a glass display case.
SOFIA:「So this is what's become of rock and roll. A smashed guitar behind a glass case displayed on some rich guy's wall.」
David Aames:「It was a gift, actually. She turns and sees it's David, engaging smile in place. She jumps slightly.」
SOFIA:「apologetic) I like it. She turns and walks away, David following close behind.」
David Aames:「Whoa, whoa, whoa.」
SOFIA:「how did you get all this stuff, this apartment, this life - David is looking just over her shoulder. She turns to see an almost disturbingly large portrait of David Aames, Sr. She turns back.
 I see.」
David Aames:「How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here.」

narrator:
David Aames:「playful, like a spy) See, I've got a little problem. I've got a stalker.」
SOFIA:「It doesn't. sound life-threatening. Someone passes, bumping her slightly, into him.」
David Aames:「I need a cover. I need for you to pretend we're having a scintillating conversation. And you're wildly entertained. I know it's tough.」
SOFIA:「I'll improvise
 -」
David Aames:「She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?」
SOFIA:「Red dress, strappy shoes?」
David Aames:「Yes_」
SOFIA:「beat, jarred) -- wow, she's really staring at you.」
David Aames:「Shit.」
SOFIA:「And she seems to be growing... less happy.」
David Aames:「Hmm.」

narrator:ON BRIAN Brian holds a drink, attempts to crash a conversation between two models. His debonair act is shaky.
 INT. APARTMENT STAIRCASE
 -- NIGHT
 David and Sofia race up the stairs. Bad kids having fun.
SOFIA:「You have another apartment?」
David Aames:「Sort of a day office. Come on - They arrive at the door to a smaller upstairs apartment.」
SOFIA:「I'm not going in there.」
David Aames:「Well I am. Goodnight. He enters and shuts the door. Frustrated, she stands for
 a moment, listening to the music streaming from the downstairs apartment. We watch her private moment as she decides to leave him, turns, feels the emotional pull, dances back and knocks sharply three times.」
SOFIA:「I hear her coming.」
David Aames:「Really?」
SOFIA:「No. David pulls her inside. Shuts the door behind them.」
narrator:INT. PARTY - NIGHT
 Julianna and Brian, both looking for David, discover each other.
 INT. HOME APARTMENT/OFFICE - NIGHT
 Artwork on the walls. Sofia is drawn to a powerful Monet... and it is not a copy.
David Aames:「We're safe.
 And I've got nothing to drink...」

narrator:
SOFIA:「Who did these paintings?」
David Aames:「This is Joni Mitchell. This one is Monet. And this one is done by me. (as a tour guide) It is a snowboard.」
SOFIA:「Well, two of them are geniuses. (laughs)」
David Aames:「off the Monet) It's the real thing. His paintbrush painted that vanilla sky. His canvas. It. was my mother's.」
narrator:INT. PARTY - NIGHT
 Julianna and Brian hold their private conversation by a piano. They are bonded, almost mesmerized by their mutual fascination for David.
 INT. DAVID'S OTHER APARTMENT -- NIGHT
 David and Sofia laugh.
David Aames:「You know what I think? You're either a very good actress or you really do sort of like me.」
SOFIA:「I am an actress.」
David Aames:「There's probably not too much you aren't great at.」
SOFIA:「Are you about to compliment, my phone voice?」
David Aames:「It's pretty good, you know -」

narrator:
David Aames:「I'm surprised you're available.」
SOFIA:「I'm surprised you're surprised.」
David Aames:「I can't keep this banter going.」
SOFIA:「Me neither. Beat. They drop the act. A powerful, awkward moment... and the door opens.」
BRIAN:「I caught you.」
SOFIA:「Brian! Come in here!」
David Aames:「What's going on --」
BRIAN:「Your friends are fun and I'm drunk.」
David Aames:「cheerful) Julie Gianni is stalking me.」
SOFIA:「She looked dangerous.」
BRIAN:「Nobody stalks me. So I drink.」
David Aames:「Well, we're out of drinks up here.」
BRIAN:「Here, finish my Jack and Coke. He messily tries to hand his drink to David, but spills it embarrassingly. All his cool is gone, and what's left are his friends covering for him, cleaning up.」
David Aames:「These stupid glasses
 -」

narrator:
SOFIA:「embarrassed) Don't worry. I'll get. us all something. Jacks and Cokes? She exits, leaving the two friends.」
BRIAN:「I better hit it. I drank too much and I didn't fucking eat.」
David Aames:「Don't be stupid. The party's just starting.」
BRIAN:「moving away) For you it is.」
David Aames:「You can't go. You're my guest of honor.」
BRIAN:「Fuck you, David. You're paying me to write my novel, so you own me.」
David Aames:「I don't own you. You're brilliant, you're good-looking, you're handsome.」
BRIAN:「But why'd you have to hit on Sofia?」
David Aames:「No one's hitting on Sofia.」
BRIAN:「Fine. Whatever you say.
 I'm crazy, I'm blind.」
David Aames:「No, you're not blind. You're just drinking Jack Daniels. And when you drink Jack, you start. in with that Frank Sinatra, "She Shot. Me Down," gimme a cigarette, King of Sad thing...」

narrator:
David Aames:「I'll find one.」
BRIAN:「But wait. You're rich and women love you and I'm from Ohio and I'm drunk. Can I tell you the truth?」
David Aames:「Everyone does.」
BRIAN:「I dig her.
 And I've never said this to you before, about any girl. But she could be... could be could be could be... the girl of my fuckin dreams.」
David Aames:「You're not from Ohio.」
BRIAN:「I know.
 But if she fucks tip our friendship - she can go to hell. I won't allow it!
 We are bros.」
David Aames:「I feel the same way.」

narrator:
BRIAN:「Stay, baby.」
David Aames:「I'll give you a lift home later.」
SOFIA:「No, I have to work tomorrow.」
BRIAN:「You're in great. hands. (beat, realizing it's over) I'm just humoring myself that my opinion matters. Brian looks at the two of them. Life is telling him, and he knows it's time to go. Portrait of a man who will not get what. he wants. David notes the poetry in his friend.
 leans in close to David) You will never know the exquisite pain of the guy who goes home alone. Because without. the bitter, baby, the sweet ain't as sweet. Have a good time. He exits like a champ, a glorious sad-sack, with a hand flourish.」
David Aames:「The Sweet and Sour speech again.」
narrator:INT. PARTY
 Julie Gianni dances, her eyes closed, her hand around a strange man's neck.
 EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT __ NIGHT
 They stand nervously out in front of her apartment. In the distance, rain.

David Aames:「A lot of people are scared of heights. It's not the heights that bother me, it's the impact that terrifies me. (off her look) I won't stay long. She laughs. It was never his decision to make.」

narrator:INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
 She switches the light on in an artfully messy city girl apartment. A life is lived here, a bed on the back-room floor, a bag of trash on the counter, lamp is askew. She makes no attempt to clean it up. He soaks in the details, including some miniature dolls that occupy her kitchen and shelves.
SOFIA:「Hey Paulo! A large goofy dog comes running at her, and then proceeds to slather David with love too.」
David Aames:「I'm glad he protects you. This is a lethal canine.」
SOFIA:「from other room) I love living here. And I refuse to clean up!」
David Aames:「No problem.」
SOFIA:「I've got to work around the clock to keep this place. David eases the dog away as he examines the oddly exquisite dolls. He grabs a look at her in the other room. A bit of leg between boot and skirt. As he admires the dolls:」
David Aames:「So you're really a dancer, huh?」

SOFIA:「Do you want something to drink?」
David Aames:「Sure. David looks at her refrigerator. A note reads: Call Dad! An odd epiphany occurs as he sees the collage of photos」

narrator:that represent a hard-working, hard-earned, committed and passionate life. Shot moves across the photos. A young girl living a young girl's hard-working and happy life. Group photos of co- workers. A few from a vacation. A whole new cast of characters, all committed, and they all look inviting to him. And one gloriously random photo of her in Cabo San Lucas, raising a toast with friends.
David Aames:「I like your life.」
SOFIA:「Well, it's mine and you can't have it. David examines a humorously embarrassing vacation photo of a sloshed Sofia, a guy's arm reaching for her breast. Dedication reads: To Sergio! Marry me!」
David Aames:「I do not want to know the story behind this photo. Who's Sergio?」
SOFIA:「It's a nickname.」
David Aames:「Your nickname is Sergio?」
SOFIA:「It's a long story, and we don't know each other.」
David Aames:「So many secrets.」
SOFIA:「That's because I'm really an arms dealer.」
David Aames:「I've never known an arms dealer.」

SOFIA:「You do now. What about you? What's your nickname? David freezes. And then decides what the hell - to tell the truth.」
David Aames:「Citizen Dildo.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「You're not staying over.」
David Aames:「still stung over nickname) Never run a company. Stay an artist. Stay an arms dealer.」
SOFIA:「Oh please. Somehow, I can't play the violin for you. (beat) Although. It must be hard controlling all those people's lives. Everyone at that party is connected to you for survival in some way, it seems. David looks at her, mentally assessing her level of guile.
 Ever been married?」
David Aames:「No. Ever accept any of your 12,000 proposals?」
SOFIA:「playful, self- deprecating) 12,008.No.」
David Aames:「And you moved to New York. To dance and paint and act and deal arms.」
SOFIA:「Right. (going through CDs) Do you want to hear Jeff Buckley... or Vikki Carr?」
David Aames:「Jeff Buckley... or Vikki Carr? Both - simultaneously. He continues looking. Flashes of the photos on her refrigerator.」

narrator:things will happen if you're a good person with a good attitude. Doncha think? He regards her. He's a little restless, and a lot enchanted. Is she for real?
SOFIA:「You think I'm naive. He decides she's for real. He turns back to the photos on her fridge.」
David Aames:「No. I really don't.
 V.0.) I dug her completely. Somehow, I had found the last semi-guileless girl in New York City.」
SOFIA:「I have to get to sleep. Truthfully -- I'm also working mornings as a dental assistant.」
David Aames:「to himself) Boy, am I going to the wrong dentist.」
narrator:MCCABE(V.0.) And you didn't immediately want to sleep with her?
David Aames:「V.0.) Well you know - I'm a pleasure delayer.」
MCCABE:「V.O.) (interested in his romantic style) How does that work?」
David Aames:「V.0.) (toying with the shrink) Pleasure delaying... you don't know? You keep the relationship casual until the absolute breaking point.And then, one night, or afternoon, or morning... it could be months from now... oh, you know how it works -」

narrator:WEEK/INTERROGATION # 2 David sits with the mask, facing McCabe. McCabe is hanging on every word.
MCCABE:「actually no I don't. I've been married for twenty-two years.」
David Aames:「Ah, you've got dinner with your daughters.」
MCCABE:「That's right. I do.」
David Aames:「Back then I had intricate systems with women you wouldn't believe.」
MCCABE:「Like... what...」
David Aames:「Hey Doc. Don't get all melancholy over the thirty seconds you were single a long time ago.」
MCCABE:「That's what you think I'm doing?」
David Aames:「Yes.」

narrator:
David Aames:「Just our shortcomings. That's all we're allowed to draw.」
SOFIA:「confidently) I've never drawn such a true likeness before.」
David Aames:「Mine's finished.」
SOFIA:「Already? Hang on. Okay - done. Sofia offers her drawing. It's a caricature of a good- looking guy surrounded by money, cars and very thin girls. He snatches it, studies it, and what he sees hurts him in surprising ways.」
David Aames:「embarrassed laugh) Jesus. That's how you see me?」
SOFIA:「Maybe I didn't add enough money --」
David Aames:「No. It's wonderful. It's something you'd see on the wall of a steak-house in hell, but it's wonderful. Sign it. Sofia's face falls a bit. She sees she's hurt him. She takes the drawing and signs it, a little guilty.」
SOFIA:「Let's see yours.」
David Aames:「No. She grabs it. Its a rich portrait, filled with detail, humor and style. She is rocked by its elegance.」
SOFIA:「Wow. I feel bad. (regarding it carefully) You said to draw a caricature.」

David Aames:「I know. I couldn't. I saw you like that.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「Well, it's very good.」
David Aames:「I'll sell it to you.」
SOFIA:「You monster. How much for?」
David Aames:「One kiss. She smiles. Something is developing between them.
 That smile is gonna be the end of me.」
SOFIA:「serious) And what happens when your friend calls you tomorrow?」
David Aames:「He only met you a few hours before me. He would do the same.」
SOFIA:「I see that friendship is important to you.」
David Aames:「It is. But as his best friend, I also know that he's trying to finish a novel about inadequacy and rejection. So the longer I stay, the better it is for his career. Sofia smiles, shakes her head. And yawns.」
SOFIA:「Your career is one I'd worry about. David looks down. She's hit a nerve.
 I'm sorry -」
David Aames:「No, no. You're more right then you even know. I used to be one of those guys who was just」

narrator:snowboarding through his life, with no focus whatsoever.
SOFIA:「When did you change?」
David Aames:「pause, confesses) About five minutes ago.」
SOFIA:「direct, slightly whimsical) Every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around. David shakes his head a little. Her words strike right to the heart of him.」
narrator:DISSOLVE TO:
 INT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT - LATER
 Sofia is asleep on the sofa. Clothes still on.
 David gently strokes her hair.
 Television in b.g. It's one of those late-night infomercials, and it's ridiculously compelling. The perfect thing to bond over on a great, lingering date.
 INTERVIEWER ON T.V. And to those who think that you're a charlatan?
 OLDER MAN ON T.V. I understand. The perception of a head frozen somewhere waiting for reanimation - it sounds like science fiction.
SOFIA:「What are you watching?」
David Aames:「It's the greatest show... it's called "Sofia." Sofia looks at him and smiles. They look back to the television.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「off t.v.) I've seen this thirty times.」
David Aames:「We did a story on this guy. He owns half of Arizona.」
SOFIA:「Is he a fraud?」
David Aames:「How would you ever know?」
SOFIA:「Good point.」
narrator:INTERVIEWER ON T.V. Can you unfreeze a human life?
 OLDER MAN ON T.V. Take the case of Benny the dog. Benny is a dog who was frozen for three months, and thawed out to live a normal life.
SOFIA:「Oh, well that's comforting. It's safe for Benny. I'm in! David moves closer to her.
 We better watch out. They regard each other, and David gets up off the sofa. It's true. The promise is too great to not savor it, and walk away for now. Thrill remains in the air.
 Where are you going?」
David Aames:「I left my number on your fridge. He makes a courtly bow and turns. She feels the loss of his company.」

narrator:life together. He returns to her. Tentatively, she grabs a quick sweet kiss on his mouth. He stays for an extra moment, kissing just her upper lip, leaving no doubt as to the potential of their future. And then... very close she says:
SOFIA:「I meant that to be your forehead. David stands. He looks around the small apartment.」
David Aames:「Thank you for the inspiration. I will now attempt to run my company, showing compassion for the seething throng of my partners who root quietly for me to fail. She looks at him, quite aware of his personal and business crossroads. Silently, she roots for him like crazy.
 For things you don't even know - thank you. I'm going to go to work. I have a company to run.」
SOFIA:「Pleasure delayer. He is still somewhat stunned by the evening, and the girl. He actually wants to run his company.」

narrator:EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT - DAY
 David slips out onto the street. It's shabbier than the alluring night-time version. He'd never notice, or care... because David is a man with a brand new buzz.
 The city is his. Everything good and great suddenly feels inevitable. Life feels like a great pop song. Behind him, a car with its lights still on starts and advances alongside.
 Behind the wheel is Julianna Gianni.
JULIANNA:「David Aames. David leans on his car, turns and shakes his head.」
David Aames:「Julie Gianni.
 You're following me.」

narrator:
David Aames:「And _-」
narrator:JUL IANNA How'd it work out with our Moth Girl? Did she turn into a butterfly for you?
David Aames:「Yes she did.」
JULIANNA:「But I can see from your walk that you didn't sleep with her. David turns.
 Let me see if I can guess. You haven't slept with her because... it's more fun when you can draw it out. Sex just isn't as good if the woman hasn't told all her friends she'd never sleep with you.」
David Aames:「You're right on the money, Julie.」
JULIANNA:「She must be exhausted from trying to be witty for you all night long.」
David Aames:「Hey, Julie.」
narrator:JUL IANNA Sorry. You're just never there for your friends until they've already given up on you.
David Aames:「I'm not blowing you off! I just want to be alone for a little bit. Trust me - I have a lot of things I gotta take care of. If we're friends, which we are, you'll understand.」

narrator:you didn't invite me to your party. It zings him. David turns, considers her.
JULIANNA:「Do you want to make it up to me? I won't tell a soul. Slowly, he is drawn to her. His old self rallies one last time. He gets in the car.」
narrator:INT. JULIANNA'S CAR -- EARLY MORNING
 The streets are empty. She plays a CD of a romantic sweet pop track with a feeble vocal.
JULIANNA:「Would you do a story about me if I made a CD?」
David Aames:「Sure I would -」
JULIANNA:「Do you like my music?」
David Aames:「winning, truthful) It's vivid.」
JULIANNA:「If I weren't me, I would buy a CD by me.」
David Aames:「Well, you know, if you can reach one person. Julianna is a little hurt, hides it well.」
JULIANNA:「What is happiness to you, David?」
David Aames:「considering) what is happiness?」

narrator:JU.LIANNA One thing bothers me. Why did you tell Brian I was your fuck-buddy?
David Aames:「I didn't tell him that. I didn't say that.」
JULIANNA:「When did you stop caring?」
David Aames:「watching the road) About what --」
JULIANNA:「About the consequences of the promises you made.」
David Aames:「Promises
 - I thought we had an understanding.」
JULIANNA:「Do you know how hard it is to pretend to be your "buddy?" I love you, David. You fucked me four times in one night. You have been inside me and I have swallowed your come. That means something.」
David Aames:「Julie...」
JULIANNA:「Four times, David! That means something. Four times. He grabs at the wheel. She won't let go, and speeds up.」
David Aames:「stop the car! She picks at things on the dashboard, as she talks with a manic energy.」

narrator:
David Aames:「caring, almost. pleading) Take me to your house. We'll talk this out. I want to see where you live. I want you to stop the car, Julie. I want you to stop the car!」
JULIANNA:「Don't you know, David? Every time you sleep with someone... your body makes a promise whether you do or not?」
narrator:PROFILE OF DAVID AAMES JR. who turns slowly to face her. All he sees are haunted blue eyes. He knows at the very least, there will be a crash. She guns the accelerator.
 He is paralyzed, unable to alter his fate.
JULIANNA:「Tell me something, David. Do you believe in God? Sweet pop music swells. She bursts the barrier of the winding road, and the car sails into an embankment of a road below. All sound disappears, as we hear a new kind of music. Ethereal, almost wondrous. This music continues.」

narrator:TO BLACK
 EXT. CENTRAL PARK - HALL OF TREES - DAY - DREAM
 David walks the hall of trees. It's the gentle seductive whoosh of a new day, the way the world sounds when you're in love. Vibrant. Alive. Ironically rich in the beauty we all take for granted when we're not in love. He looks impossibly drawn forward to Sofia, who stands waiting to meet him.
SOFIA:「Hello. He steals a kiss. They both feel like they're getting away with something.」
David Aames:「You're amazing. Hello.」

narrator:
David Aames:「Yeah, well, actually... I had a horrible dream.」
SOFIA:「You dreamed you'd never see me again.」
David Aames:「I left your house. I went to the car, and my friend the stalker had been following me.」
SOFIA:「Julie.」
David Aames:「Yes. She followed me down the street. She wanted to talk, and I had that buzz... from you and me, and I think my mind was on that terrible drawing of me... and, you know, I got inside. And she drove me off a bridge and committed suicide with me in the car.」
SOFIA:「I thought you were going straight to work.」
David Aames:「But I survive! I survive with my arm and my face reconstructed. And what's worse I couldn't wake up.」
SOFIA:「shushing) How was your house after the party?」
David Aames:「What party? A party?」

David Aames:「I don't... I don't remember.」

narrator:INT. HALLWAY TO KITCHEN -- DAY
 He shuffles down the hallway, seen from behind, a little heavier, a wool cap on. There are no shiny surfaces around the house. Music continues.
MCCABE:「V.0.) What happened next?」
narrator:DAVID (V.0.) What really happened? What, didn't you read the file? I was out for three-and--a-half weeks. My face and arm were shattered. My jaw was broken in four places. No surgery could be performed because of the coma. You can't feel the darkness, or the numbness, you can't even feel.
 BACK TO UNIT
David Aames:「And then... I came back to life. Just like that dog, Benny. Benny The Dog.」
MCCABE:「nods, knowing) Benny. Benny The Dog.」
David Aames:「Except my life was no longer normal. There were blinding migranes now...」
narrator:INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT -
 (INTERROGATION # 2)
 McCabe continues with David.

David Aames:「nerve damage. Why?
 This is how big business operates. A random accident. A "lifestyle mishap?" They are not coincidences. How do you think air-tight contracts are broken? These are power upheavals.」

narrator:
David Aames:「And they're in the news every day, right. between the lines. Someone did this to me. My father wrote this in his book, you know. Chapter One, Page One, Paragraph One. What is the answer to 99
 out of a hundred questions? Money.」
narrator:INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY
 David from behind, on the phone. He strains to be casual. His head hurts.
 INTERCUT
 INT. OFFICE
 _. DAY
 Thomas Tipp, the drunk truth-telling employee, is on the phone. David's empty office in b.g.
TIPP:「David David David. I don't want to worry you, I'm holding them off. But we've got a situation here. The by-laws of the Board protect your 51% vote only if you're mentally acute. Now I'm sorry that poor girl died, but you've given the Board a real gift with your mishap. They'd like to declare you "incapacitated." But you are back, and you sound good to me -â¢ so let's fight the fuckers._. and have a full recovery. And maybe you should let people see you. I mean, the last time we were together you were in a coma and you were very fucking rude to me. You didn't say a word. Camera reveals the extent of David's facial damage.」

David Aames:「Yes, well, the rumors of my death have been mildly exaggerated.
 V.0.) Who could I trust? The ants were taking over the ant-hill. Who could I trust?」

narrator:EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY
 Sofia Serrano walks down a New York street in sensible shoes. Just another part of the working force.
 To our unseen follower, she is most beautiful when unaware she's being watched. Shot continues parallel to her. She stops, sees someone she knows. A truck with several panes of glass passes by and stops in traffic. Her image blurs behind the glass, but visible to us in the window is David Acmes. His healing face is dotted with stubble. He wears a wool hat. He looks noble, an assembled victim, a modern miracle. He looks like many things. But he no longer looks like David Aames. The truck moves through frame.
 INT. HOSPITAL CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
 A dashing-looking surgeon dripping with confidence, DR. POMERANZ, talks with David.
 DR. POMERANZ The cranial structure was based on thirty pins fastened by small panels and bits of bone from the mandible... and it seems the cartilage grafts have maintained your cheek structure. Unfortunately, because you were in a coma, immediate plastic surgery was impossible.
 DAVID (V.0.) Doctors. Their power is in jargon. So you study up...
David Aames:「Is that the procedure for all Bilateral Periorbital Hematomas in a LeFort III fracture of a comatose patient?」

narrator:DR. POMERANZ (pleasantly surprised) In a LeFort III
 - absolutely. The potential for sub-cranial brain damage was too great.
 DAVID (V.0.) . you do your best. David consults a list he's made.
David Aames:「And beyond the cheek grafts, Dr. Pomeranz is, are the pins fastened」

narrator:with any kind of aluminum which could ionize and cause that pressure in my head? Because I'm ready for another operation.
 ANGLE SHIFTS TO REVEAL three other doctors in the room listening.
 DR. POMERANZ Yes, we are working on processes. But it... you're specifically not at the stage where we can experiment --
David Aames:「Experiment. Use me.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ The headaches will go away -
David Aames:「These are more than headaches. This is like a steel plate slicing through my every thought.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ We're not cowboys. We can't, just wing it.
David Aames:「Because I can't think straight most of the time.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ We can increase your medication.
David Aames:「Yes. Medication.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ And there are things we'll continue to investigate. But there are so many others who've not been able to benefit aesthetically from plastic surgery as you have --
David Aames:「This isn't about vanity, Dr. Pomeranz! (keeping rage bottled) This isn't about vanity. This is about functioning in the world.」

narrator:It is my job to be out there functioning. I've got the money, and I'll pay any amount. Invent something. Play jazz. You say you're the best face man in New York City. Fucking prove it.
 OTHER DOCTOR We could do something about your arm --
David Aames:「Fuck my arm! Dr. Pomeranz looks over to a young assistant.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ Nobody here takes your feelings for granted. We did prepare something for you, based on the preliminary examination.
David Aames:「Tell me. Bring it on.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ It's sometimes useful in the early stages of rejection. It's a facial prosthetic. It was two weeks in the making. The assistant opens a black-leather bound box. In it is the mask - molded from David's own face, locked into a pleasant, bland expression.
David Aames:「A facial prosthetic.」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ The aesthetic replacement does work. Emotionally, and actually.
 OTHER DOCTOR (helpfully) And the plastic in the aesthetic shield also filters out abusive rays, and assists in the regeneration of cells.
David Aames:「So it's an aesthetic regenerative shield.」

narrator:DR. POMERANZ That's correct. Exactly.
 THIRD DOCTOR And the ergonomics of the plate- barrier allows it to reflexively interact with the movements of your own face.
David Aames:「I see --」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ It's a helpful unit.
David Aames:「Good. Because for a minute there I thought we were talking about a fucking mask!」
narrator:DR. POMERANZ (beat) It's only a mask if you treat it that way.
David Aames:「No it's great. This completely takes care of Halloween. But what about the other 364
 days of the year?」

narrator:DAVID
 (V.0.) I planned my re-emergence like the Normandy Invasion. Take-out boxes, catalog orders with new clothes, comic books and magazines with ripped-out pages fill the living room.
 INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT LIVING ROOM - DAY
 A memo is placed on the floor of David's living room. Shot pulls back to see he has covered the entire floor of his living room with memos and paperwork from Aames Publishing. He stands regarding all of this information, stooped and wearing his bathrobe.
 INTERCUT
 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
 David stands in front of the bathroom mirror, practicing aloud.
David Aames:「Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia.」

narrator:DAVID POV (V.0.) I'll just say it
 - I did my homework. I read every memo. Thomas Tipp was right. People will read again.
 INT. APARTMENT - DAY
 David stares at his screen. Disheveled, in underwear, he eats red--vine licorice and M&amp;Ms.
David Aames:「V.0.) I attended the monthly board meeting of the Seven Dwarves by video hook-up. Oh, baby. This was war. On screen before him, all seven, and Thomas Tipp too. Shot moves in on screen. We can feel the cool tension of their imminent takeover. David twitches, feels it physically.
 because nobody's buying books let's invest... my father was an adventurer.」

narrator:David sits in the middle of his office. Push in on the white tape that covers the camera on the top of the monitors.
 INTERCUT
 INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT
 David continues practicing aloud.
David Aames:「Sofiaaaaaaaaaaa. Serrano.」
narrator:DAVID
 (V.0.) I grew stronger in ways I had never known before. And on December 5th... my planes filled the sky... the return of David Aames, Jr. Citizen Dildo.
 INT. DANCE STUDIO - DAY
 Sofia dances at the end of a long day. A few others leave for the day, trying not to stare at David. Sofia is there alone. For a moment, we share her solitude. She practices ballet, twisting and turning and landing in frame, looking just past camera. She freezes. She catches sight of David, undisguised. And she begins dancing again. Harder. Does she even recognize him? He moves closer, attempting an easy-going persona. We hear nothing but the sound of his heart pounding, in odd counter-rhythm to her dancing. Finally she stops.
David Aames:「You won't believe this... but this is me smiling. She laughs a little at his strange new humor, keeps a brave front.」
SOFIA:「It's been a long time. I tried to see you but your people wouldn't let me.」

David Aames:「I didn't want to see me, okay. But then I woke up today and finally, a good hair day. David fights anxiety, smoothes his coat.」

narrator:
David Aames:「You want to go out, you want to do something?」
SOFIA:「convincing herself) Sure.」
David Aames:「What?」
SOFIA:「Let's go out and do something.」
David Aames:「This weekend. I'll cancel an operation or two. We'll have fun. Because I am all about fun. She kisses his cheek, pulls back quickly, and as she exits... he sees her fighting tears.」

narrator:CONAN (off the dog's complacency) He is thawed out, right? Laughter on the t.v. Riding the buzz of what he's watching, David dials.
David Aames:「Hey listen, it's David. I'm back in your life. I saw you earlier tonight. I was just watching our old friend Benny the Dog on... on Conan... and I thought of you. (laughs) Whatever. I loved seeing you today. So I'll see you soon. You're a great dancer! He hangs up and feels instantly mortified. He looks at the phone in his hand.」
narrator:TO BLACK
 INT. CLUB - NIGHT
 David moves into the thick of a high-energy neighborhood dance club. He wears a facial prosthetic. In the darkness, he doesn't stick out, not much. He spots Sofia and Brian, chatting, waiting for him. The sight of the two together recalls happier times. Sofia is dressed down. Brian, on the other hand, has never looked better. His clothes are nicer. He wears them with confidence. David has practiced an opening joke, clapping his hands together. He will be trying too hard, all night long. They regard him in the mask.
SOFIA:「a little too big) Hi!」
BRIAN:「equally big) Hey.」
David Aames:「What are you drinking?」

narrator:
BRIAN:「I am in the mood for cheap sugary overpriced rum-and-cokes. You want one?」
David Aames:「spreads arms) Is there any other kind?」
BRIAN:「I'll go get us some
 -」
SOFIA:「Where's the bathroom?」
BRIAN:「Behind... over by the place next to the door by the chick... I mean, girl who looks like Bjork. She leaves. David turns to Brian immediately.」
David Aames:「You look good, man. How's your book?」
BRIAN:「Take it off.」
David Aames:「I can't. It's a facial shield. It's an antiseptic prosthesis to stop infections. These fucking doctors.」
BRIAN:「with all love) Take off the mask! It's freaking me out.」
David Aames:「I can't. It's my face. This is my face.」
BRIAN:「Oh no. Trust me. It's a little different.」
David Aames:「Hey, if you're embarrassed, just go. Nobody asked you to chaperone」

narrator:
BRIAN:「Sofia asked me.」
David Aames:「She didn't want to be alone with me? (Brian regrets his words) That's bullshit. Because I think I'm being pretty fucking cool about the whole thing.」
BRIAN:「Talk to a shrink!
 Or you can call me sometime, instead of hiding in your apartment. Don't take it out on a girl you only met once.」
David Aames:「stung) Did she say that? I met her "once?" Did she say I met her "once?" Brian looks away. He's said too much.」
BRIAN:「Cut it out. I miss the old you. We all miss the old you. Because the new guy is shit. David turns away. The perfectly wrong thing to say.
 Oh. Man. Wait. That came out wrong. I love you - period. How's your arm, man? David shakes his head, moves toward the bar.」
David Aames:「Fuck you, Brian. How about no more sympathy? How about if that's the deal we make with each other? Okay? David shakes him off, goes to the bar, and rips off his mask. His head thuds from a migraine.
 Gimme a Budweiser and a shot of tequila.」

narrator:BARMAN (avoiding eye contact) What kind of tequila?
David Aames:「What did you say to me?」
narrator:BARMAN (leans closer, still looking down) I said - What. Kind. Of. Tequila.
David Aames:「Why don't you ask me to my face, bitch? The barman looks up, expressionless.
 Patron. If you have it.」
narrator:ON DAVID - LATER watching Sofia and Brian from a distance, talking as friends.
David Aames:「Another shot, another Bud. He throws bills on the bar.」
narrator:BARMAN No. This is on the house.
David Aames:「Why -」
narrator:BARMAN (odd compassion) It just is. Bitch. David looks across the club to see Sofia. A Clubgoer Guy whispers something in her ear. She shakes it off. He pounds down another shot at the bar, this time with the Barman.
David Aames:「Patron! David regards a video monitor behind the bar. Someone's camera is fixed on Sofia dancing with Brian, and another good-looking Young Man. She playfully shoves the good- looking Young Man away, not unlike the move that won David」

narrator:over lo those many nights ago at her apartment. He pounds back another drink.
 INT. CLUB BATHROOM - NIGHT
 Weaving at the urinal, David pees. Squeezes his temples to ward off a headache.
 CLUBGOER # 1 Dude, fix your face!! The Clubgoers laugh. David laughs too. Suddenly, he feels better.
 INT. CLUB
 - NIGHT
 David moves through the crowd, powered by a new sense of belonging. The music swirls, and takes him along with it. He dances wildly. In the strobing darkness, he is anonymous, moving with the group, lost as one. David takes the mask and pulls it over his head, backwards. In profile, his two faces stare in opposite directions. David sees his moment. Sofia is alone near the corner of the club. He approaches her.
David Aames:「Hello again.」
SOFIA:「Hello again.」

David Aames:「Idea. Let's start all over. He regards her for a moment, sees her apprehension and discomfort.
 How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here - (beat, does her) You are. But the food is good. He continues, taking a step.
 See, I've got a little problem. I've got a stalker. (does her) It doesn't sound life-threatening. (does himself, self- deprecating) I need a cover. I need for you to pretend we're having a」

narrator:scintillating conversation and you're wildly entertained. I know it's tough. (does her, with head nod) I'll improvise.
SOFIA:「a touch playful) I don't talk like that.」
David Aames:「She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?」
SOFIA:「Red dress, strappy shoes?」
David Aames:「That's right! Their heads are close together, looking off into the club. David doesn't notice that Sofia is having a hard time playing along with this game. She is overwhelmed, holding it in. David continues.
 I think she' s the saddest girl to ever hold a martini.」
SOFIA:「about to burst) David --」
David Aames:「Are you okay?」
SOFIA:「No.」
David Aames:「What's wrong? Is it me?」
SOFIA:「I'll tell you later.」
David Aames:「Come on. Tell me now. Something's wrong. Tell me everything. Let's talk about it right now.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「I'll tell you in another life... when we are both cats. David looks at her. His eyes flash at her choice of words. Perhaps there is hope. Sofia stares at. him, worried about his sanity as he goes overboard with his praise of her turn of a phrase. Push into close-ups as they struggle to deal with the discomfort of this moment.」
David Aames:「I don't believe you just said that. That. is the best thing I've ever heard. That is hilarious. God, that just killed me. The way you said that. See - that's what I love about you. "I'll tell you in another life when we are both cats."」
narrator:EXT. CLUB STREET - NIGHT
 David, Brian and Sofia walk swiftly down the street in silence. David weaves. They are anxious to pretend it was a wonderful evening.
SOFIA:「Well, this is where I leave you.」
BRIAN:「Wait. I'll walk you to your door.」
SOFIA:「No, I live just around the corner.」
BRIAN:「I've got my bike here.」
SOFIA:「I'd rather walk.」
David Aames:「Don't be a drag. Can't you see she wants to go on her own?」

BRIAN:「Shut up, you're drunk.」
David Aames:「I may be an idiot, but I'm not drunk.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「Seriously, I don't need you to walk me home. Thank you.」
BRIAN:「Okay then. So. We'll call you.」
SOFIA:「unconvincing) Great. We'll go catch a movie or something.
 So. We'll meet up soon. The word sounds a lot like goodbye and they both know it.」
David Aames:「We'll meet up soon. Sofia turns and runs away.
 lacking all pride) We'll call you again to go out with me!」
BRIAN:「We'll call you. David and Brian walk on. Brian turns back to see Sofia running to the corner.
 Well, it's been a real blast, David. I bid you good evening.」
David Aames:「Where you going?」
BRIAN:「My bike. It's back over there. We'll hang soon. Bring your mask if you want. I'm getting used to it.」
David Aames:「Wait a minute.」

narrator:
David Aames:「shrugs) I don't know.」
BRIAN:「You drank a little too much. Call me tomorrow if you want.」
David Aames:「Tomorrow I'll wish I was dead.」
BRIAN:「starts in Sofia's direction) No you won't. You just need to sleep.」
David Aames:「Hey!」
BRIAN:「Brian's itching to go) What!」
David Aames:「What did you say to Julie Gianni the night of the accident?」
BRIAN:「What?」
David Aames:「You told her she was a "fuck buddy."」
BRIAN:「Never.」
David Aames:「And she was a little more than pissed about it.」
BRIAN:「a little guilty) Have you been harboring this shit all along? I never talked to her.」
David Aames:「Whatever. I mean - who am I, if I can't. be the one who tells you you're not ugly? Aw, give me a courtesy laugh. Come on! Brian shakes his head, starts running.」

narrator:
David Aames:「Brian!! I'm so fucked up. I'm just so fucked up! Brian stops one last time, irritated, at the far end of the street.
 We're best friends! We're bros! Brian needs to rid himself of David. He turns and runs in the direction of Sofia. David feels the deep pangs of rejection. Breathing hard. His head hurts. His body hurts.
 Come on, man, we're bros. Beat. He sprints down the middle of the street after Brian.」

narrator:WOMAN'S VOICE This is a cheap ploy for sympathy. David wakes up and looks into the kind face of Julie Gianni.
JULIANNA:「Boo! He recoils. His vision sharpens. In the morning shadows, with increasing focus, we see that it is actually Sofia.」
David Aames:「No, I'm okay -」
narrator:DAVID POV Sofia examines him with a look of concern and understanding. Everything takes on a clear and sharp focus. Behind her is a beautiful vanilla sky.
SOFIA:「And it worked. Get up.」
David Aames:「Ugh -」
SOFIA:「helping him up) That's right. I agree. Ugh.」
David Aames:「This is a joke.」
SOFIA:「touches his cheek) David. I'm not going to lie to you. I liked the way you looked. But if you don't pull it together, I'll forget the other guy. You know that. other guy - YOU?」
David Aames:「groggy) I'm still that guy. I'm still that guy. Sofia speaks with rapid-fire conviction, as if she might change her mind if she thought about it too much.」

narrator:turns out to be a big mistake, I do have the ability to fall out of love with you - (snaps fingers) - like that. She helps him up.
David Aames:「I am still that guy.」
SOFIA:「Shut up.」
narrator:DAVID
 (V.0.) We created our own world together. Us vs. Them -
David Aames:「Where's Brian?」
SOFIA:「He went with you, didn't he?」
David Aames:「shaking head at his own paranoia) I thought you guys hooked up. She stops in profile with him. She's astonished at his jealousy. Then:」
SOFIA:「raw truth) I wish you hadn't gotten in the car with that girl.」
David Aames:「a long apology is coming) Sofia... I'm... She covers his mouth, nose and face. Only his eyes remain.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「Holy God, this is going to change my life in a zillion different ways... I must be nuts.」
narrator:DAVID
 (V.0.) - and we were quite a pair.
 Her believing in me. Me believing that I deserved it. We hear the sound of voices, human voices howling like dogs.
 EXT. PRISON - NIGHT
 Prison. Human voices, howling like dogs.
 INT. PRISON HALLWAY -- NIGHT
 David is led down the hallway to his appointment, past many door's with thick windows and howling prisoners. Aaron pulls him along. They arrive at the Psychiatric Unit.. McCabe is visible, standing, deep in thought through the door.
 INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - DAY -
 (INTERROGATION # 3)
 McCabe holds his drawings, standing. David is seated.
MCCABE:「I see you haven't been wasting your time. Do you ever draw anything else? All the drawings are of Sofia, drawn in a similar fashion. David is a little jumpy, a little amped. He moves to the window. The yard is filled with prisoners.」
David Aames:「No.」
MCCABE:「Did you sleep last night.?」
David Aames:「No. I did not sleep.」

David Aames:「Ellie?」
MCCABE:「Is that a girl you knew? A girl you were in love with?」
David Aames:「I've only been in love once.」
MCCABE:「Apparently, you kept repeating it last night. You did sleep, David, and your advisor said you cried out, you had a nightmare.」
David Aames:「Everything is a nightmare --」
MCCABE:「You cried out for "Ellie," David. Do you remember what happened?」
David Aames:「No... no...」
MCCABE:「Dig deep, David. Dig deep. You cried out for Ellie. What do you remember about Ellie? Show me your face, David. Help me. Open the door. David rises and goes to the prison window. ANGLE ON McCABE In powerful framing, lower shot capturing him powerfully.
 digging deeper', aching to help) It's true you had an accident. It's true you were disfigured, but not anymore. Do you remember?! (with certainty) They did fix your face. Take off that mask, David. You'll see your face is perfect under there.」
David Aames:「I never trusted the Doctors. What happened next was surreal. That same arrogant bastard, Dr.」

narrator:Pomeranz, called me and suddenly he was my new best friend.
 SHOT OF DR. POMERANZ friendly with outstretched hand, standing in front of x- rays
 DR. POMERANZ (warmly) David! Hey, my brother. I felt. really bad about our last conversation.
 CLOSE ON DAVID
David Aames:「He'd discovered a new form of reconstructive surgery, with the help of a doctor from Berlin.」
narrator:ON DOCTOR FROM BERLIN who bows to camera.
 DOCTOR FROM BERLIN Hello.
 CLOSE ON DAVID - CONTINUED
David Aames:「The next thing I knew they shot me full of drugs I'd never heard of and away we went.」

narrator:INT. SURGICAL THEATRE - DAY
 David is strapped onto a plank headed for a metallic capsule. We hear odd noises and see high--tech details of the operation. Laser beams criss-cross his face. Shot moves to the video playback of the operation with this legend beneath: Capture. An assistant doctor captures Polaroid frames.
 DAVID
 (V.0.) I couldn't tell you what they did. It seemed like science fiction to me.
 DOCTOR (V.0.) He's going to be one good-looking guy when I'm done. A Polaroid still of David in mid-operation rolls out of the print-machine.
 DAVID
 (V.0.) Obviously, I was suspicious. Wouldn't you be?
 INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT -
 (INTERROGATION # 3)
 David and McCabe both sit against the wall. McCabe listens intently.
MCCABE:「Suspicious of whom? Of what?」
David Aames:「Once you've been driven off a bridge at 80 miles an hour, somehow you don't invite happiness in without a full body search.」

narrator:
David Aames:「I always liked... George.」

David Aames:「How about another question -」
MCCABE:「Well, you won't show me your face. So back to the time-line. Hurry. Let's move through this.」
narrator:INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT - DUSK
 There is tension in the air. David's face is covered in high-tech facial plates. He sits at a table near the window. Sofia stands.
SOFIA:「You've got to take the plates off, David.」
David Aames:「I don't want to know what's under here.」
SOFIA:「It's going to be fine, you'll see.」
David Aames:「I already called Pomeranz and switched it to Wednesday.」
SOFIA:「I hope that shrew at the front desk gave you shit about it.」
David Aames:「I'll go in the morning. The car'll be fixed. She advances, takes his face in her hands. She tugs at the corner of one of the plates.」

narrator:
SOFIA:「Good, because I know that the problem wouldn't be you delaying something you were dreading.」
David Aames:「Couldn't be that.」
SOFIA:「Nooooo, it couldn't be that. She pulls off one of the plates.
 I mean, I agree, it's very important to have... She pulls off another one of the plates. She grows a bit emotional.
 the right car... She pulls off another one of the plates. Tearing slightly.
 to take you where you want to go... 24
 hours a day... Quadrant by quadrant, his face is restored to a pale- skinned and tender... perfection.」
David Aames:「How bad is it?」
SOFIA:「Well, your ears are in the right place. And the rest of it is... not too bad at all. Tenderly she kisses, and hugs him.」
narrator:INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT -- DUSK
 Sofia and David make love, looking into each other's eyes.
SOFIA:「Do you love me? I mean, really love me... because if you don't, I'll just... have to kill you.」
David Aames:「In my next life I want to come back as this mole -」

narrator:points out mole between her breasts) - seriously, this mole. I mean, you'll have to wear bikini tops to work, or loose-fitting shirts so I can breathe, but -
SOFIA:「I love you. I love you. I love you.」
David Aames:「I could live right there.」
SOFIA:「Is this a dream?」
David Aames:「Oh absolutely. She grabs his face, kisses him... a powerful moment, like few others in this life.」
narrator:EXT. VILLAGE STREET - DAY
 Portrait of the couple together, moving down the middle of the street on fresh snow.
 DAVID (V.0.) We talked about the big things, the little things, and the big things. But in truth, with Sofia, it was the in-between times.
 INT. FLORENTINE'S BAR AND GRILL - DAY
 Sofia laughs. A perfect laugh. David admires her, sits next to her, holding her hand. Theirs is the unmistakable closeness of a couple in the first real throes of a sexual relationship. They share a giddy open secret. Across the table, we reveal Brian. He's got a tiny high-tech camera. Sofia speaks sweetly and passionately to David in Spanish. David replies knowingly - "si"
 - every few words. It's a deep communication. She exits.

BRIAN:「What, did she say?」
David Aames:「in love) I have no idea. Brian shakes his head.」

narrator:
David Aames:「How's things, Brian?」
BRIAN:「Fine. David's face is huge in the Brian's viewfinder.」
David Aames:「How's things, Brian?」
BRIAN:「Don't flatter yourself. I'm fine. Besides - Sofia is great, but by no means one-of--a-kind. She was a proximity infatuation. Brian, naturally suspicious and somewhat jealous,
 spots a writer at a nearby table making notes.
 to writer) And don't use that, it's mine. The writer looks busted.」
David Aames:「Where'd you get the camera?」
BRIAN:「I'm into things... you have no idea.」
David Aames:「Well, as long as you're okay.」
BRIAN:「And anyway, we're friends, aren't we?」
David Aames:「Always. David offers his hand. They shake.」

narrator:
BRIAN:「Hey what's up with your face? Fuck, there's a seam opening or something!」
David Aames:「mounting horror) What - what are you talking about? Brian laughs. The spell is broken. Friends again.
 You asshole!」
narrator:INT. DAVID'S BATHROOM - NIGHT
 David sleeps next to Sofia. He sits up, takes a glass of water from the night-stand, admires his girlfriend and moves to the bathroom.
 INT. BEDROOM/BATHROOM - NIGHT
 He turns on the light, fills the glass with water. Looks up into the restored mirror. His face is disfigured. He recoils in terror, knocking against a towel rack, sinking to the floor and grabbing a look at a shiny surface on the lower cabinet. Sofia bolts upright. She sees him on the floor across the room, sees his face and backs up in the bed, leaning on her arm, screaming.
 INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 He awakens suddenly. Sofia is next to him, smiling.
SOFIA:「Was I snoring?」
David Aames:「still breathing heavily) No, I think it was me. Thirsty, that's all. She kisses his hand reassuringly.」

narrator:INT. BATHROOM
 Tentatively, he flips the light on. A very relieved David regards his restored face. He shuts off the light quickly, and fills the glass of water. Splashes some water on his face.
 INT. BEDROOM
 David climbs back into bed.
 SOFIA
David Aames:「small laugh) I could listen to you say "mmmmm" for the rest of my life.」
SOFIA:「They kiss. The kiss expands, as he moves to the back of her neck. He caresses her body. She kisses his fingertips. Her back to him. Tangled in sheets, they ease into lovemaking with the perfect fit of two bodies meant for each other. He gently grabs a handful of her hair. His hand stops.
 It's not Sofia's hair. He slowly turns her face to his, and we glimpse David over the shoulder of the woman who is not Sofia. He leaps out of bed, falling to the floor, the sheet tangled around him. He turns on the light. Julie Gianni hides her face from the light, like a night animal caught in the intrusive glare of day. When she speaks, it is with Sofia's cadence and accent.」
JULIANNA:「scared, uncomprehending) Baby, what's wrong? He gasps for breath, backing away. Totally terrified. Paralyzed. In a low voice:」

David Aames:「Where. Is. She.」

narrator:Julie Gianni looks a little loopy, almost stoned. Taunting.
JULIANNA:「taunting, sweet) I'm Sofia.」
narrator:INT. BEDROOM -- NIGHT - MINUTES LATER
 David dismantles the phone, takes the cord. He ties her willing hands to the posts of the bed. She protests oddly, like an actress playing a part.
David Aames:「Now I'm going to make sure that I tie this four times. Do you know why, Julie? Because four times really means something. David pulls his pants on, frantically opens the wardrobe closet. No Sofia. Goes to the kitchen. No Sofia. Julie sobs quietly, sweetly, tied to the bed. She behaves and acts like Sofia.」
JULIANNA:「David, don't hurt me. David returns and sits across from her on the bed, terrified and barely hanging on.」
David Aames:「Okay, I'm freaked out. It worked. So just tell me right now - where is Sofia?」
JULIANNA:「I am Sofia.」
David Aames:「In one minute I'm going to call the police --」
JULIANNA:「heart breaking) Don't do it, honey.」
David Aames:「I knew you'd survived the accident. She looks at him with tearful eyes.」

narrator:
David Aames:「Whose body was it? Who's the one who hired you? The Seven Dwarves?」
JULIANNA:「I haven't had any accident!」
David Aames:「No, of course not. It wasn't an accident at all. It was attempted murder!」
JULIANNA:「Honey, please. He picks up the phone. Dials 911.」
David Aames:「Police Department? I've captured an intruder who's entered my home. He turns to her. Her eyes are yearning.」
narrator:INT. POLICE STATION/INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT
 The flash of mug shots. We see David sitting, sweating, agitated waiting in a Police station holding room. Suddenly, the door opens and Thomas Tipp enters, flanked by other Detectives.
TIPP:「Guys, can you give us a minute here? Detective Larson... Detective Andrews... thank you. The room empties, and Tipp approaches David.」
David Aames:「They think that I had something to so with this.」
TIPP:「I'm going to handle this exactly the way your father would have handled this. I've got it solved.」
David Aames:「You've got it solved? Where is she?」

narrator:
David Aames:「Thank God you're here, man. I love her.」
TIPP:「Yeah... Now, I want you to look at these photos and then I'm going to destroy them. Sofia's testimony is also in here. It won't exist. She's not going to press charges.」
David Aames:「Press charges against. me?」
TIPP:「David, wake up. As your friend, I think you should see what you did to Sofia. The press won't get hold of this if you get. away quickly. David leans back in his seat. It's all of them - everybody - against him. Tipp opens a file thick with paperwork, two computer discs and photos. He displays a photo to David, moving it into the light so he sees it clearly.
 Julie Gianni, battered.」
David Aames:「This is Julie Gianni. That's not Sofia. This is Julie Gianni. I didn't do that do that to her. (beginning to shut down) Tommy, someone's setting me up.」

narrator:INT. POLICE STATION -â¢ NIGHT
 David strides down the hallway. A Man in a crystal blue sport coat stands, waiting. As David passes, the Man confides a single line - as if smuggling out a valuable secret. Voices from other rooms, including a small child saying: "Mommy, mommy."
 MAN IN BLUE COAT This is a revolution of the mind.
 INT./EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT
 Exiting, David is intercepted by a furious Brian.
BRIAN:「You're in fucking sad shape, man. Don't fucking ever hit a girl, man. Hit me, but don't fucking EVER hit a girl. David looks up -- sees a small security camera trained on them - pulls Brian out of the station.」
David Aames:「It wasn't Sofia. It was Julie.」
BRIAN:「Oh... it was Julie Gianni. So, Sofia was abducted by Julie, and now Julie is posing as Sofia.」
David Aames:「Yes.」
BRIAN:「You're in O.J. land, man. Julie Gianni is fucking dead!」
David Aames:「I don't know what the cops have told you, but let me assure you - Julie Gianni is alive alive ALIVE.」
BRIAN:「I didn't talk to the cops. I talked to Sofia!」

David Aames:「Where is she?」

narrator:
David Aames:「Let me tell you something - I did not do that to her. Look me in the eye and tell me that it was the same girl you brought to the party. Tell me it was your dream girl, your "proximity infatuation."」
BRIAN:「raw, finally) Yes! And you stole her from me! David backs away, as Brian responds bitterly, from his heart.
 The one girl I really wanted, and you took her from me. You're insane. You're losing it, man. David nods powerfully. He now understands. Brian is one of them too.」
David Aames:「You have revealed yourself.」
BRIAN:「Oh yeah, I'm with them.」
David Aames:「Where'd you get the coat, Brian? Where'd you get the camera? How much did they pay you?」
BRIAN:「Listen to me, 'cause it's the last time we're ever gonna speak. I was your only friend.」
David Aames:「You have revealed yourself to me.」

narrator:
VENTURA:「Problems?」
David Aames:「takes a sip) I'm in no mood to be fucked with. So do yourself a favor and le -」
VENTURA:「There's an explanation for all this, David.」
David Aames:「Who the fuck are you?」
VENTURA:「You and I know each other. You found me on the Internet. Silence. David stares at the man.」
David Aames:「What do you want? Why are you following me?」
VENTURA:「I'm here to help you. And first of all, it's very important that you calm down.」
David Aames:「Calm down?」
VENTURA:「You must overcome your fears and regain control. Take hold of your life again. It's as easy as holding that glass. What if I told you that you can take control of all of this... everything... even me... David turns to him.」
David Aames:「Look. I'm straight, okay?」

narrator:David listens, as he looks at the spirited Saturday night crowd, lost in their revelry.
VENTURA:「and yet, they might only be here because you wanted them to be. You are their God. And not only that, you could make them obey you... or even destroy you. David shakes his head, exhausted and in no mood. He shuts his eyes, fights off a headache.」
David Aames:「cutting him off) What I'd like them to do is shut up! Especially you! Silence. David opens his eyes. They're all staring at him. Casually waiting for orders.」
VENTURA:「You see? David looks at him with horror, backing away. Receding in his vision:
 You and I signed a contract, David.」
narrator:INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - DAY -
 (INTERROGATION # 4)
 McCabe is taut, following the thread. His voice calming.
MCCABE:「Who is the man in the restaurant? Who is it?」
David Aames:「I can' t.
 --」
MCCABE:「Can you tell the difference between dreams and reality?」
David Aames:「Of course. Can you?」

narrator:RACING THOUGHTS A woman walks down the hallway, looking back. Flash
 of papers signed.
David Aames:「I signed something.」
MCCABE:「Was the man at the restaurant there? McCabe's voice becomes infinitely calm and helpful.」
David Aames:「Fuck!」
MCCABE:「Accept your body's resistance. Let your head answer.」
David Aames:「Yes.」
MCCABE:「That's right. Who is Ellie?」
David Aames:「I... I don't know what's real.」
MCCABE:「What happened that night, David? Somebody died.」
David Aames:「I don't want to remember.」
MCCABE:「Do you understand that you hold the keys to this prison?」
David Aames:「It wasn't Sofia.」
MCCABE:「Who was it?」
David Aames:「No.」

narrator:
David Aames:「No!」
MCCABE:「You want to let it out, don't you David? You're about to tell me. Tell me what your heart and soul will not allow you to forget. David shudders. It's coming.
 Did you kill Sofia? McCabe stands tall, stunned and curious, still pressing to pull the nightmare out of him.」

narrator:INT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT - DAY - FLASHBACK
 The clown figurine on her stove-top falls over as we hear the front door kicked in. David enters, slamming the door behind him. He looks around what was once the site of such happiness. The same details he'd glimpsed long ago are now horrifying to him. He looks at a photo on the refrigerator. The same note: Call Dad! The exact expression, exact photograph he'd seen on his earlier visit. Now it is Julie who is in her place. He opens her drawer. Just some papers. And then... the drawing he'd once done of her. Now featuring Julie. He rips up the drawing, and proceeds to destroy the apartment until he stops, collecting himself. Takes a breath and... Smash. A lamp is broken over his head. Julie Gianni bends down to help him. A shard of the lamp-base is still in her hand. Julie's whole demeanor is that of a different girl. Even her voice is softer, almost exactly the knock-around sweetness of Sofia.
JULIANNA:「I thought you were a vandal.」
David Aames:「with difficulty) Who... are... you?」
JULIANNA:「I'm Sofia.」
David Aames:「You are not Sofia... you're not Sofia...」

narrator:
JULIANNA:「I'm Sofia.」
David Aames:「Whatever. Julie starts to cry. Battling tears, she offers her heart and soul.」
JULIANNA:「David, honey. This will all be over soon. We'll be together again. You'll forget Julianna and I won't be afraid of you. Let me get you a cold towel. She exits. He struggles to rise. His head is a swirling mess. And then:」
narrator:ON KITCHEN DOORWAY Sofia slowly returns with towel. Her image still blurry. David advances, and faints into her arms.
David Aames:「Sofia?」
SOFIA:「whispers) Yes, David, I'm Sofia. I'm Sofia. He accepts it, all of it, whatever it is, just to hold her. They kiss, gently, then more powerfully.」
narrator:INT. SOFIA'S BEDROOM - DAY
 They make love, emotionally and deeply. Two bodies yearning to possess the other. Camera moves across their bodies, as David wipes frame to black, as the move continues onto her back.

David Aames:「Where were you... Sofia doesn't answer, doesn't want to lose the moment.
 I don't want to know. (thrusting) Just tell me you love me. David keeps his face buried in her shoulder'. He doesn't want to look. The passion gives way to a mounting dread, as he hears a voice almost like Sofia's.」

narrator:
JULIANNA:「O.S.) I love you. I'm afraid of how powerful this is. He continues moving passionately, harder now. Julie responds to the overwhelming surge within David. She gives over to the waves of dark pleasure, riding him like a rocket. from hell. Harder now. Grabbing her hands and pulling them high above her head, clamping down with his own. Julie Gianni cries a deep, guttural sound of passion. This is what someone sounds like when they're not faking it. And then... slam... a pillow comes down over her face.」
David Aames:「What the fuck is happening? Julie begins to react to what is clearly no longer an advanced lovemaking session.
 I want to see your face! She grabs at the pillow.
 I want to see your face! David reaches orgasm, sobbing, recklessly out of control. Julie's body stops kicking and settles into silence. He loosens the pillow, and is rewarded with one last violent attempt at life. Her hand smacks his neck. He's so taut it bounces off. She grabs at his face one last time, her hand is left with enough power only to caress his face. She goes limp. Silence. David's crying turns to a whimper. He looks at the pillow over Julie's head. He's confused, a puddle of jagged adrenaline. He doesn't want to remove the pillow for fear of who could be underneath. He rises up, his elbow across her lifeless chest. With true horror, he knows he has to move his hand, but his hand will reveal who he's just killed.」

narrator:He looks horribly disfigured. We hear the sound of breathing, encased in a mask.
 INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT - (INTERROGATION # 4)
 McCabe sits across from David. McCabe looks away, haunted by the admission of guilt.
David Aames:「I did it, didn't I? I don't... feel... like I killed someone. I feel like...」
MCCABE:「David, who...」
David Aames:「I'm in a dream...」
MCCABE:「was the man at the restaurant? David shakes his head.
 pained) Sometimes the mind behaves as if it were in a dream. Faces change, people become other people. The subconscious is a powerful thing. You treated Julie carelessly, didn't you, David? Your feeling of responsibility or guilt over Julie might have easily turned Sofia into Julie. (pause) Do you know what derangement is?」
David Aames:「I need your help.」
MCCABE:「All I know is, you killed your girlfriend and I don't know what's in your mind.」
David Aames:「I need your help.」

narrator:
David Aames:「What will you plead?」
MCCABE:「Temporary derangement. It's your best chance. They won't believe me.」
David Aames:「What do you believe?」
MCCABE:「Believe it or not, I care about you. You've become like family to me. I don't want to give up on you. David looks at, him oddly. Suddenly, the archetype seems very familiar. McCabe continues with the noble concern of a towering father figure.
 continued) But I needed more. I needed an answer. I... I even thought there was more than a good chance someone was playing tricks on you. Maybe it was the board. But I can't exceed my duties here. I'm just a psychologist, and I have to leave you.」
David Aames:「Will I see you at the trial?」

narrator:
David Aames:「McCABE!!! McCABE!!! COME BACK!!!」
narrator:COME BACK!!!
 INT. PRISON CORRIDOR - DAY
 McCabe hustles down the hallway with David. McCabe stands tall, moving forward, like Atticus Finch with Tom Robinson.
 INT. CAR
 McCabe watches David closely. Aaron the Guard turns to look at David behind the glass partition that separates them. David looks out the window at the world he's missed.
 EXT. PLAZA - DAY
 The police vehicle pulls up in front of a crowded business plaza. McCabe exits with David. Always watching his every move, his every revelation. David looks upward at the towering skyscraper in the center of the plaza, rising high into the sky.
 INT. SKYSCRAPER - DAY
 A Building Guard guides them through the lobby. McCabe trained on David. A look between the two. A Building Guard intercepts them.
MCCABE:「to Building Guard) Life Extension Corporation, please.」
narrator:GUARD What -
MCCABE:「a look to David) L.E. We hold a court order.」
David Aames:「I think I've been here before - McCabe strides purposefully past the Building Guard. Aaron shows the pass, and hustles to keep up.」

narrator:them. McCabe watches David, as Aaron releases him from the handcuffs. The group moves together. Senses are overwhelming David, as they approach the reception station.
David Aames:「Her name is Libby. A stunning young woman rises and moves to greet them.」

narrator:PATIENT #1 .and I'm not a "true believer" by nature. But the older you get, the more you see the flow of the future, and I made a choice...
 PATIENT #2 .why not embrace the future? I Believe the research - the future is in the union of the spiritual... and the scientific... Annoyed at everything around him, McCabe pulls David onward.
 INT. LIFE EXTENSION OFFICE - DAY
 Aames and McCabe sit and wait in a warm wood-paneled office, proposals in hand. A glimpse shows words like Re- Evolve and Re-Experience, peppered with colorful photos of simple, life-affirming portraits of everyday life. It's well-appointed and well-marketed organization. McCabe regards David as the victim of a lunatic's scam. Injustice fuels McCabe.
MCCABE:「continuing, scoffing) "Cryonization - a journey of re- awakening after the preservation of the human body at extremely low temperatures."」
David Aames:「They laughed at Jules Verne too.」

narrator:The DNA codes of the human body have been broken. Soon, heart ailments, cancer and so much more, will be a thing of the past. Very simply, your anguish... your discontent... even your death is no longer necessary in a traditional sense. Whatever malady that hides behind that mask... is temporary. She looks directly at David, and it stirs him. McCabe studies her, and the operation. He thirsts for clues. David flips through the folder - toward the back, a panel of photos of storage tanks. Lavishly and warmly photographed, just like next year's cars in a magazine.
DEARBORN:「Within an hour of your passing, L.E. will transfer your body to a vessel where you will be sealed and frozen at
 196
 degrees below zero. Power outages, earthquakes, nothing will effect your suspension-hibernation.」
MCCABE:「Did you sign this contract, David? David looks down at pamphlet, looks up.」
David Aames:「What's the "Lucid Dream" option?」

narrator:VIDEO MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION Shot of Edmund Ventura holding a Life Extension folder in his arms. Graphic reads: Tech Support.
 NARRATION It is all just around the corner, the day after tomorrow.
 MONITOR - THE PRESENTATION The words: LIFE, PART TWO drift onto the screen, obscuring the phase marked: Death.
 NARRATION Another chapter begins seamlessly, a living dream. Life Extension's promise to you. Life -- Part Two.
DEARBORN:「A living dream.」
MCCABE:「Your death will be wiped from your memory. I guess I missed that one in USA Today. David sits, reeling from the revelation he may be living a Lucid Dream.」
David Aames:「a dream... What if there was a mistake? What if the dream became a nightmare?」

narrator:And what is any life, if not the pursuit of a dream? The dream of peace. The dream of achievement. The dream of hearing someone saying these words, when they truly mean them. David is deeply moved as he listens. Somewhere, music begins to play. It is The Beach Boys' "Good Vibrations."
DEARBORN:「I love you, David. Te Quiero. Roam free, David. Most of us live our whole lives with no real adventure to call our own. It's hard to comprehend-but they laughed at Jules Verne too.」
narrator:DAVID
 DEARBORN This is a revolution of the This is a revolution of the mind.
 mind.
 CLOSE FRONTAL SHOT OF DAVID AAMES David pulls off his mask. He runs out.
 INT. LIFE EXTENSION CORRIDOR - DAY
 David storms around the corner from Dearborn's office, yelling, raving.
David Aames:「I want to wake up! I want to wake up! Aaron grabs for him. David wrenches free.」
narrator:DAVID
 TECH SUPPORT! David runs down the corridor and into the elevator, Aaron chasing after him.
David Aames:「It's a nightmare! The doors shut. Music rising.」

narrator:
David Aames:「Tech Support!! Music stops. We hear the ding of the elevator.」
narrator:CLOSE ON DAVID Who turns and approaches the elevator, exiting frame.
 INT. ELEVATOR - DAY
 David enters the elevator to see Edmund Ventura, calmly waiting.
VENTURA:「David Aames. I think it's time we had a proper re-introduction. I'm Edmund Ventura from the oasis Project, formerly Life Extension --â¢」
narrator:L.E.
David Aames:「Tech support.」
VENTURA:「Yes, I'm your Tech Support. We first met
 150
 years ago.」
David Aames:「Oh shit. You sold me the Lucid Dream. Ventura smiles.
 Well, what the hell happened?」
VENTURA:「I tried to warn you in the bar. I told you to exercise control, that it all depended on your mind. All of this, everything is your creation. And we're now heading toward your true moment, of choice.」
David Aames:「True moment of choice?"」
VENTURA:「Yes.」
David Aames:「When did the Lucid Dream begin?」

narrator:
VENTURA:「Remember the day of the nightclub?」
David Aames:「trying to remember) Yes.」
narrator:EXT. SOFIA'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT - FLASHBACK
 David is collapsed on the ground. His mask clutched in his hand, passed out. Rhythmic score.
VENTURA:「with importance) That night, when Sofia left you and you fell asleep on the pavement, that was the moment you chose for the splice...」
David Aames:「remembers the word) The splice?」

narrator:a traditional sense. Your Lucid Dream is monitored by Life Extension, and a panel of experts who follow your every thought. Even at this moment.
 INT. ELEVATOR - DAY
 The scene continues as David Aames rides the elevator. The compartment now rises above the first seven floors to reveal they are traveling upwards in an exterior elevator. Other skyscrapers pass by outside the window.
VENTURA:「Forgive me. I'm blowing your mind. David looks down with dread.」
David Aames:「I'm not a big fan of heights.」
VENTURA:「I know. (continuing) We erased what really happened from your memory.」
David Aames:「reaching to understand) ..erased?」
VENTURA:「Replaced by a better life under these beautiful Monet-like skies.」
David Aames:「recognizing pieces) My mother's favorite.」

narrator:A FLASH OF FAMILIAR IMAGES from the life and psyche of his youth. Mirrored in David's life in moments we've already seen.
VENTURA:「An album cover that once moved you...」
David Aames:「An album cover?」

narrator:
VENTURA:「You barely knew her in real life, but. in your Lucid Dream, she was your savior.」
narrator:ON DAVID - SLIGHT PUSH trying to remember, feeling the flashes of truth in brief moments. And then a bracing, challenging realization that something went wrong.
David Aames:「What happened in my real life? Something happened. What did you erase?」
VENTURA:「Do you really want to know?」
narrator:HIGH ANGLE SHOT OF DAVID almost nauseous
David Aames:「Tell me everything.」
narrator:EXT. NIGHTCLUB STREET - DAY
 Match push in on David rising to his feet. His disfigured face thunders with a massive migraine. The exact. shot we once saw as David and Sofia walked away together. This time, David is alone.
VENTURA:「The morning after the nightclub, you woke up on that street, hung- over and along. You got up and walked away. You never saw Sofia again.」
David Aames:「I didn't kill Sofia.」

narrator:friend, the one whose job you saved, who wrenched the company back in your control.
 INT. RISE PUBLICATIONS - DAY - FLASHBACK
 David exits the company elevator and returns to Aames Publications. Tipp is out in front of the employees and staffers who welcome him back.
David Aames:「warmly) Tommy. (vague memories) But then... somebody died.」
narrator:INT. DAVID'S APARTMENT
 - NIGHT
 David sits in front of the computer in bad physical shape.
VENTURA:「You longed for Sofia. You shut yourself away for months. You were alone. You couldn't take the pain anymore. Headaches... you could barely function.」
David Aames:「I found you on the Internet. I signed the contract with you. And then...」
narrator:INT. MOTEL --- NIGHT -- FLASHBACK
 Aames takes pills, collapses. Music plays.
 PUSH INTO CLOSE UP ON DAVID IN ELEVATOR
David Aames:「I remember... It comes back to him, powerfully.
 Somebody died. It was me.」

narrator:ON DAVID -- IN ELEVATOR David turns from looking out the window of the elevator.
David Aames:「tears in eyes) The little things. There's nothing bigger, is there?」
narrator:EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY
 David and Ventura exit the elevator onto the rooftop.
VENTURA:「Your subconscious did create problems. Your dream turned into a nightmare. The glitch has been corrected.」
David Aames:「So all I have to do is imagine something? If I wanted McCabe to come back, right now - McCabe comes flying out of the door.」

narrator:with Sofia, or whomever you wish... or you can choose the world out there. Ventura gestures to the city beyond, as they come to a halt.
 CLOSE ON DAVID
David Aames:「The world out. there. And you can bring me back, just. like Benny the Dog.」
narrator:CLOSE ON VENTURA The client is starting to understand.
VENTURA:「Yes. Just like Benny the Dog. Your face and body can now be fixed, of course. But it's very different out there now. Your finances won't last long. Your panel of observers are waiting for you to choose. Ventura gestures into the camera. He begins walking backwards to the roof's ledge.
 There are no guarantees. But remember, even in the future, the sweet is never as sweet without the sour. David sees that Brian Shelby has now joined McCabe on the roof. He nods to Brian, who nods back.」
David Aames:「How do I wake up?」
VENTURA:「The decision is yours. Ventura glances over the edge.」
David Aames:「And I chose this scenario, didn't」

narrator:
VENTURA:「It's been a brilliant journey of self-awakening, and you've simply got to ask yourself -- what is happiness to you?」
narrator:CLOSE PUSH IN ON DAVID AAMES His moment of realization.
David Aames:「I want to live a real life. I don't want to dream any longer.」
VENTURA:「Any last wishes?」
David Aames:「Let them out there read my mind.」
VENTURA:「I wish you well, David. Music rises as he turns to see Sofia. He moves to her. She touches his cheek. His face is restored. They embrace.」
David Aames:「Look at us. I'm frozen, and you're dead. And I love you.」
SOFIA:「It's a problem.」
David Aames:「I lost you when I got in that car. I'm sorry. She looks at him, beguiling and understanding.
 But remember what you told me once? Every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around. She kisses him.」

narrator:David takes a breath and begins backing to the ledge.
David Aames:「I'll see you in another life when we are both cats. David backs up and begins to run. He arrives at the edge, looking down at the distance to the ground, stopping himself at the precipice. He looks back to Sofia one last time, and then leaps out into the celestial future. For a fraction of a moment, he is suspended in mid-air. And he hurtles to the ground. And the ground hurtles to meet him.」
