narration:EXT . SPACE
 Camera pans over the planet Earth and zooms right into London .
 INT . ROSE 'S BEDROOM
Continue zooming into Rose 's alarm clock , which reads 7:「30 . Rose smacks it to stop it beeping and jumps out of bed .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 Rose picks up her bag , gives her mother a peck on the cheek and grabs her keys .
ROSE:「Bye !」
JACKIE:「See you later !」
narration:Jackie sips her tea and picks up the phone .
 INT . STAIRWELL
 Rose runs down the stairs of the block of flats where she lives .
 INT . LONDON STREET
 Rose jumps off a bus .
 INT . HENRICKS , SHOP FLOOR
 Rose carries a pile of clothes , looking rather bored .
 EXT . TRAFALGAR SQUARE
 Presumably in her lunch hour , Rose and Mickey sit next to a fountain , having a laugh , eating , teasing each other and kissing . They get up to leave .
ROSE:「Bye !」
narration:INT . HENRICKS , SHOP FLOOR
 She is shown back in Henricks .
LOUD SPEAKER:「This is a customer announcement」
narration:Rose is about to leave .
SECURITY GUARD ( hands her a package ):「Oi !」
narration:Rose takes the package looking non- too- happy and enters a lift .
 INT . HENRICK 'S , BASEMENT
 When the lift pings , she alights in the basement .
ROSE:「Wilson ? ( Goes further down the corridor ) . Wilson , I 've got the lottery money . Wilson ? ( Knocks on a door that says " HP Wilson CEO " ) . You there ? Look , I ca n't hang about 'cause they 're closing the shop . Wilson ! ( To herself )」
narration:There is a sudden sound further along the corridor . Rose immediately snaps her head in the direction it has come from .
ROSE (  ):「Hello ? Hello , Wilson , it 's Rose . Hello ? Wil ... Wilson ?」
narration:She stops outside a fire door for a moment , and then opens it , and find herself in a room that looks as though it is used for storing shop dummies . She turns the light on and walks further into the room .
ROSE (  ):「Wilson ? Wilson ?」
narration:She tries another door at the side . The fire door through which she entered closes abruptly . Shocked , she runs back and shakes the handles , but they will not open . There is small sound from behind her .
ROSE (  ):「Is that someone mucking about ? ( Goes back into the room ) . Who is it ?」
narration:Behind her , a dummy slowly turns its head of its own accord . Rose turns around just in time to see it step out of its alcove and towards her . She backs away slowly .
ROSE (  ):「Heh ... You got me , very funny .」
narration:The dummy says nothing and does not stop advancing . Two more join it .

ROSE (  ):「Right , I 've got the joke ! Who 's idea was this ? Was it Derek 's ?」
narration:The dummies still advance . Another comes from behind .
ROSE (  ):「Derek , is it you ?」
narration:All of the dummies are now alive . Rose backs up away and trips over a box . She quickly pulls herself up again and backs against a wall . The dummy lifts its arm to strike her . Rose screws her face up ready for the blow , when a hand grabs hers . Rose opens her eyes and snaps her head to look at the owner of the hand .
A MAN , THE DOCTOR:「Run !」
narration:They run , just in time , through a fire exit . The dummies are in pursuit . The Doctor leads her into a lift .
 INT . HENRICKS , LIFT
 The doors close on one of the dummy 's arms . The Doctor pulls it off and the doors close .
ROSE:「You pulled his arm off !」
Doctor Who:「Yep ! ( Tosses it to her )」
ROSE:「Very clever , nice trick ! Who were they then , students ? Is this a student thing or what ?」
Doctor Who:「Why would they be students ?」
ROSE:「I do n't know ...」

Doctor Who:「Well , you said it ! Why students ?」
ROSE:「'Cause ... to get that many people dressed up and being silly ... they got ta be students .」
narration:The Doctor grins . He likes her .
Doctor Who:「That makes sense ! Well done .」
ROSE:「Thanks .」
Doctor Who:「They 're not students .」
ROSE:「Whoever they are , when Wilson finds them , he 's gon na call the police .」
Doctor Who:「Who 's Wilson ?」
ROSE:「Chief electrician .」
Doctor Who:「Wilson 's dead .」
narration:He steps out of the lift . Rose follows him .
 INT . HENRICKS , CORRIDOR
ROSE:「That 's just not funny , that 's sick !」
Doctor Who:「Hold on ! ( Pushes Rose to the side ) . Mind your eyes .」
narration:He disables the lift with his sonic screwdriver .
ROSE:「I 've had enough of this now !」
narration:The Doctor walks off .
ROSE:「Who are you , then ? Who 's that lot down there ? I said , who are they ?」

Doctor Who:「They 're made of plastic . Living plastic creatures . They 're being controlled by a relay device in the roof . Which would be a great big problem if I did n't have this . ( Shows her an electronic device ) . So ! ( Opens fire exit for Rose ) . I 'm going to go up there and blow them up , and I might well die in the process . But do n't worry about me , no . Go home , go on ! Go and have your lovely beans on toast .」
narration:EXT . HENRICKS
 Rose goes through the door .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Do n't tell anyone about this , because if you do , you 'll get them killed .」
narration:He shuts the door . Rose turns away looking slightly bemused . It opens again .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「I 'm the Doctor , by the way , what 's your name ?」
ROSE:「Rose .」
Doctor Who:「Nice to meet you , Rose . Run for your life .」
narration:He shuts the door again . Rose runs . Outside , nobody knows what is going on . Rose is distracted and nearly gets herself run over by a taxi .
TAXI DRIVER:「Watch it !」

narration:Rose proceeds to get as far away from the building as possible and looks back just in time to see the top floor blow up . She runs home - past a police box .
 INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 News 24 is on the television . Rose is sat on the sofa , watching it .
REPORTER:「The whole of Central London has been closed off as police investigate the fire . Earlier reports in the ...」
narration:The dummy 's arm is lying on a chair . Jackie walks in holding a phone to her ear .
JACKIE TYLER:「I know , it 's on the telly ! It 's everywhere ! She 's lucky to be alive ! ( Hands Rose a mug ) . Honestly , it 's aged her . Skin like an old bible . Walking in now you 'd think I was HER daughter ! Oh and here 's himself ...」
narration:Mickey appears in the doorway .
MICKEY SMITH ( to Rose ):「I 've been phoning your mobile , you could 've been dead ! It 's on the news and everything ! I ca n't believe that your shop went up !」
narration:He hugs her .
ROSE:「I 'm alright , honestly , I 'm fine ! Do n't make a fuss .」
MICKEY:「Well , what happened ?」
ROSE:「I do n't know !」
MICKEY:「What was it though , what caused it ?」
ROSE:「I was n't in the shop , I was outside , I did n't see anything ...」
JACKIE ( walking in ):「It 's Debbie on the other end , she knows a man from the Mirror . Five hundred quid for an interview !」
ROSE:「Oh that 's brilliant ! Give it here !」
narration:She takes the phone and hangs it up .
JACKIE:「Well , you 've got ta find some way of making money . Your jobs kaput and I 'm not bailing you out . ( Phone rings again , Jackie answers ) . Beth ! She 's alive ! ( Leaves room ) . I tell ya , sue for compensation ! She was within seconds of death ...」
MICKEY:「What 're you drinking ? Tea ? ? No , no no , that 's no good , that 's no good . You 're in shock , you need something stronger .」
ROSE:「Why ?」
MICKEY:「You deserve a proper drink , you and me , we 're going down the pub , my treat . How about it ?」
ROSE ( smiling ):「Is there a match on ?」
MICKEY:「I 'm just thinking about you , babe !」
ROSE:「There 's a match on , ai n't there .」
MICKEY:「Well , that 's not the point . We could catch the last five minutes .」
ROSE:「Go on then . I 'm fine , really . Go . Get rid of that ...」

narration:She gestures to the dummy 's arm . Mickey points to his lips . Rose gives him a kiss . He pushes her back onto the chair and they laugh . He gets up to go and Rose puts a leg out to trip him up . Mickey picks up the arm and waves with it .
MICKEY:「Buh Bye !」
ROSE:「Bye !」
narration:Mickey pretends to strangle himself with the arm and leaves . Rose shakes her head fondly and turns her attention back to the news .
REPORTER:「... fire then spread throughout the store ... there is very little chance of saving the infrastructure ...」
narration:EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 Outside , Mickey tosses the arm into a bin as he walks past it . Zoom into the darkness of the bin ...
 INT . ROSE 'S BEDROOM
... and out onto the red 7:「30 on Rose 's alarm clock . Rose whacks it to stop it beeping and sits up .」
JACKIE ( in background ):「There 's no point in getting up , sweetheart . You 've got no job to go to .」
narration:Rose flops back on her pillow .
 INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 Rose is having breakfast , her mother is talking to her .
JACKIE:「There 's Finches ... You could try them . They 've always got jobs .」
ROSE:「Oh , great . The butchers .」
JACKIE:「Well it might do you good ! That shop was giving you airs and graces . And I 'm not joking about getting compensation . You 've had genuine shock and trauma ! Arianna got two thousand quid off the council just because the old man behind the desk said she looked Greek ! I know she IS Greek , but that 's not the point , it 's a valid claim .」
narration:Rose hears a rattling and stands up .
ROSE:「Mum , you 're such a liar , I told you to nail that cat flap down . We 're going to get strays !」
JACKIE:「I did it weeks back !」
ROSE:「No , you thought about it !」
narration:Rose discovers that the screws have fallen out onto the floor . The cat flap moves violently . Rose leaps backwards , then comes back again and pokes the cat flap open gingerly . The Doctor 's face is right outside it . Rose gasps and opens the door .
Doctor Who:「What 're you doing here ?」

ROSE:「I live here .」
Doctor Who:「Well , what do you do that for ?」
ROSE:「Because I do ! And I 'm only at home because someone blew up my job .」
narration:The Doctor gets out his sonic screwdriver .
Doctor Who:「Must 've got the wrong signal . You 're not plastic , are you ? ( Knocks on Rose 's forehead ) . No , bonehead . Bye , then !」
narration:He makes to go , but Rose pulls him back inside .
ROSE:「You , inside . Right now .」
narration:She shuts the door .
JACKIE:「Who is it ?」
narration:INT . JACKIE 'S BEDROOM
 Rose pokes her head into Jackie 's bedroom .
ROSE:「It 's about last night , he 's part of the inquiry . Give us 10 minutes .」
JACKIE:「She deserves compensation .」
Doctor Who:「Huh , we 're talking millions .」
narration:The Doctor leans against the doorframe , waiting for Rose to come back . Jackie looks at him for a moment and stands up , flirtatiously .
JACKIE:「I 'm in my dressing gown .」
Doctor Who:「Yes , you are .」

JACKIE:「There 's a strange man in my bedroom .」
Doctor Who:「Yes , there is .」
JACKIE:「Well , anything could happen .」
Doctor Who:「No .」
narration:The Doctor walks off . Jackie pulls a face at his back .
 INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
ROSE:「Do n't mind the mess . Do you want a coffee ?」
Doctor Who:「Might as well , thanks ! Just milk .」
narration:Rose goes into the kitchen and starts making coffee .
 INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN
ROSE:「We should go to the police . Seriously . Both of us .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor picks up a gossip magazine .
Doctor Who:「That wo n't last , he 's gay and she 's an alien .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN
ROSE:「I 'm not blaming you , even if it was just some sort of joke that went wrong .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor picks up a book and flicks through it .
Doctor Who:「Sad ending .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN

ROSE:「They said on the news they 'd found a body .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor picks up an envelope and reads it .
Doctor Who:「Rose Tyler . ( Looks in mirror ) . Ahh , could 've been worse ! ( Prods his large ears ) . Look at me ' ears .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN
ROSE:「All the same , he was nice . Nice bloke .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor shuffles a pack of cards .
Doctor Who:「Luck be a lady !」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN
ROSE:「Well anyway if we are going to go to the police , I want to know what I 'm saying .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor shuffles the cards again and manages to make them all go flying .
 INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN
ROSE (  ):「I want you to explain everything .」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
THE DOCTOR ( of the cards ):「Maybe not . ( Hears scuffling from behind sofa ) . What 's that then ? You got a cat ?」

narration:INT . TYLER 'S KITCHEN
ROSE:「No ...」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor leans behind the sofa and the dummy 's arm leaps out and grabs him by the neck .
ROSE (  ) ( wandering in with coffee ):「We did have , but there 's these strays , they come in off the estate ...」
narration:Behind her , the Doctor is being strangled viciously by the hand while he tries vainly to fight it off . She does not quite seem to register that the Doctor is being harassed by a rubber hand .
ROSE (  ):「I told Mickey to chuck that out ... ( She puts the coffee down on the table ) . Honestly , give a man a plastic hand ... anyway , I do n't even know your name , Doctor ... what was it ?」
narration:The Doctor throws the hand off and it flies across the room attaching itself to Rose 's face . She screams and the Doctor leaps up and tries to pull it off .
 INT . JACKIE 'S BEDROOM
 Jackie is drying her hair , completely oblivious .
 INT . TYLER 'S LIVING ROOM
 The Doctor and Rose crash onto the coffee table , breaking it , and roll onto the floor . The Doctor pushes her back onto the sofa and gets out his sonic screwdriver , disabling the hand .
Doctor Who:「It 's alright , I 've stopped it . There you go , you see ? ( Tosses it to her ) . ' Armless .」

ROSE:「Do you think ?」
narration:She uses it to whack him on the shoulder .
Doctor Who:「Ow !」
narration:INT . STAIRWELL
 The Doctor is running down the stairs , Rose hot on his tail .
ROSE:「Hold on a minute , you ca n't just go swanning off .」
Doctor Who:「Yes I can . Here I am , this is me , swanning off . See ya !」
ROSE:「That arm was moving , it tried to kill me !」
Doctor Who:「Ten out of ten for observation .」
ROSE:「You ca n't just walk away , that 's not fair ! You 've got to tell me what 's going on .」
Doctor Who:「No I do n't .」
narration:They reach the bottom of the stairs , go through the doors .
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
ROSE:「Alright then . I 'll go to the police . I 'll tell everyone . You said , if I did that , I 'd get people killed . So , your choice . Tell me , or I 'll start talking .」
Doctor Who:「Is that supposed to sound tough ?」
ROSE:「Sort of .」
Doctor Who:「Does n't work .」
ROSE:「Who are you ?」

Doctor Who:「I told you ! The Doctor .」
ROSE:「Yeah . But Doctor what ?」
Doctor Who:「Just the Doctor .」
ROSE:「The Doctor .」
Doctor Who:「Hello !」
ROSE:「Is that supposed to sound impressive ?」
Doctor Who:「Sort of .」
ROSE:「Come on . You can tell me . I 've seen enough . Are you the police ?」
Doctor Who:「No . I was just passing through . I 'm a long way from home .」
ROSE:「But what have I done wrong ? How comes those plastic things keep coming after me ?」
Doctor Who:「Oh ! Suddenly the entire world revolves around you ! You were just an accident , you got in the way , that 's all .」
ROSE:「It tried to kill me !」
Doctor Who:「It was after me , not you ! Last night , in the shop , I was there , you blundered it . Almost ruined the whole thing . This morning , I was tracking it down , it was tracking me down ... the only reason it fixed on you is that you met me .」
ROSE:「So , what you 're saying is , the entire world revolves around you .」
Doctor Who:「Sort of , yeah .」

ROSE:「You 're full of it !」
Doctor Who:「Sort of , yeah .」
ROSE:「But , all this plastic stuff , who else knows about it ?」
Doctor Who:「No one .」
ROSE:「What , you 're on your own ?」
Doctor Who:「Well , who else is there ? I mean , you lot , all you do is eat chips , go to bed , and watch telly ! When all the time , underneath you , there 's a war going on !」
narration:Rose takes the arm off him .
ROSE:「Okay , start from the beginning .」
narration:EXT . ROAD
ROSE:「If you 're gon na go with this living plastic , and I do n't even believe that , but if we do ... how did you kill it ?」
Doctor Who:「The thing controlling it projects life into the arm . I cut off the signal , dead .」
ROSE:「So that 's radio control ?」
Doctor Who:「Thought control . ( Silence ) Are you alright ?」
ROSE:「Yeah . So , who 's controlling it , then ?」
Doctor Who:「Long story .」

ROSE:「But what 's it all for ? I mean , shop window dummies ... what 's that about ? Is someone trying to take over Britain 's shops ?」
narration:They laugh .
Doctor Who:「No .」
ROSE:「I know .」
Doctor Who:「It 's not a price war . ( Laugh again . Suddenly serious ) . They want to overthrow the human race and destroy you . Do you believe me ?」
ROSE:「No .」
Doctor Who:「But you 're still listening .」
narration:She stops . The Doctor walks on .
ROSE:「Really though , Doctor . Tell me . Who are you ?」

THE DOCTOR ( stops ):「Do you know like we were saying ? About the Earth revolving ? ( Walks back to her ) . It 's like when you were a kid . The first time they tell you the world 's turning and you just ca n't quite believe it because everything looks like it 's standing still . I can feel it . ( Takes her hand ) . The turn of the Earth . The ground beneath our feet is spinning at a thousand miles an hour , and the entire planet is hurtling around the sun at sixty - seven thousand miles an hour , and I can feel it . We 're falling through space , you and me . Clinging to the skin of this tiny little world , and if we let go ... ( Lets go of her hand ) . That 's who I am . Now , forget me , Rose Tyler . ( Takes the arm , waves it in her face ) . Go home .」
narration:He walks away . Rose watches his retreating back and then starts to walk herself . The Doctor steps into a police box . Rose hears the sound of the TARDIS departing . She runs back as fast as she can . The police box is gone . She shields her eyes from the sun , looks around her , then walks away again .
 INT . MICKEY 'S FLAT
 Mickey lets Rose in .
MICKEY:「Yahey , there 's my woman ! ( Slaps her bum ) . Kit off !」
ROSE:「Shut up . ( He gives her a kiss ) . Mwah !」
MICKEY:「Coffee ?」
ROSE:「Yeah , only if you wash the mug . And I do n't mean rinse , I mean wash . Can I use your computer ?」
MICKEY:「Yeah . Any excuse to get in the bedroom .」
narration:Mickey goes into the kitchen . Rose closes the door of his bedroom behind her .
MICKEY:「Do n't read my emails !」
narration:INT . MICKEY 'S BEDROOM
 Rose turns on the computer and types " Doctor " into a search engine . No relevant results are found . She types in " Doctor Living Plastic " . Still nothing . She types " Doctor Blue Box " . The first result reads " Doctor Who - do you know this man ? Contact Clive here ... " She clicks on it and a webpage with a blurry photograph of the Doctor and the words " Have you seen this man ? Contact Clive " are presented to her . She clicks " Contact Clive " .
 EXT . CLIVE 'S HOUSE
 Mickey and Rose are sitting in the car .
ROSE:「You 're not coming in ! He 's safe , he 's got a wife and kids .」
MICKEY:「Yeah but who told you that ? He did . That 's exactly what an Internet lunatic murderer would say .」
narration:Rose gets out of the car anyway , grinning . Mickey does n't look too happy , and gives a man putting out his rubbish the evils . Rose knocks on the door of a house and it is answered by a boy of about 11 .
ROSE:「Uh , hello , I 've come to see Clive ? We 've been emailing .」

CLIVE 'S SON:「Dad ! It 's one of your nutters !」
narration:Clive appears .
CLIVE:「Sorry . Hello . You must be Rose . I 'm Clive . Obviously !」
ROSE:「I better tell you now , my boyfriend 's waiting in the car , just in case you 're going to kill me !」
narration:They laugh .
CLIVE:「No , good point . No murders .」
narration:He waves to Mickey who nods , still distrustful .
CAROLINE:「Who is it ?」
CLIVE:「Oh it 's something to do with the Doctor ! She 's been reading the website . Please come through , I 'm in the shed .」
narration:Clive 's wife , Caroline , comes down the stairs carrying a washing basket .
CAROLINE:「She ? She read a website about the Doctor ? She 's a she ?」
narration:She smiles ironically and shuts the door . Mickey looks suspicious .
 INT . CLIVE 'S SHED
 Clive is showing Rose around the shed , which is a sort of shrine to the Doctor .
CLIVE:「A lot of this stuff 's quite sensitive , I could n't just send it to you . People might intercept it , if you know what I mean . If you dig deep enough - keep a lively mind - this Doctor keeps cropping up all over the place . Political diaries , conspiracy theories . Even ghost stories . No first name , no last name . Just " The Doctor " . Always The Doctor . And the title seems to have been passed down from father to son , it appears to be an inheritance . That 's your Doctor there , is n't it ?」
narration:He points to a photo of the Doctor on a computer screen behind them .
ROSE:「Yeah .」
CLIVE:「I tracked it down to the Washington public archive last year . The online photo 's enhanced , but if we look at the original ...」
narration:He shows Rose some photographs of the Doctor standing in a crowd at the time and place of the assassination of JFK .
CLIVE:「November the 22nd , 1963 . The assassination of President Kennedy .」
ROSE:「Must be his father ...」
CLIVE:「Going further back ... April 1912 . ( Brings over a photo album ) . This is a photo of the Daniels family , Southampton . And friend . ( Points to the Doctor , standing with them ) . This was taken the day before they were due to sail off for the New World . On the Titanic . And for some unknown reason , they cancelled the trip and survived . And ... ( Shows her a sketch ) . 1883 . Another Doctor . And look - the same lineage . He 's identical . This one washed up on the coast of Sumatra on the very day Krakatoa exploded . The Doctor is a legend woven throughout history . When disaster comes , he 's there . He has a storm in his wake . And he has one constant companion .」
ROSE:「Who 's that ?」
CLIVE:「Death .」

narration:EXT . CLIVE 'S HOUSE
 Mickey is still waiting outside in his car . He looks around as a bin starts to shuffle its way towards him .
 INT . CLIVE 'S SHED
CLIVE (  ):「If the Doctor 's back ... if you 've seen him , Rose ... then one thing 's for certain , we 're all in danger .」
narration:EXT . CLIVE 'S HOUSE
 Mickey looks at the bin again , but it is stationary . A few seconds later , it starts moving again . He gets out of the car and walks to the bin , looking around it to see what is moving it . Seeing nothing , he places both hands on the lid and opens it dramatically .
MICKEY:「Come on then !」
narration:The bin is empty .
 INT . CLIVE 'S SHED
CLIVE:「If he 's singled you out ... If the Doctor 's making house calls ... then God help you .」
narration:EXT . CLIVE 'S HOUSE
 Mickey shuts the bin , confused . He tries to walk away but his hands are stuck to the bin . When he tries to pull away , the bin stretches and wo n't let him . Eventually , the bin opens its lid and pulls him in backwards , shutting with a satisfied burp .
 INT . CLIVE 'S SHED
ROSE:「Who is he ? Who do you think he is ?」
CLIVE:「I think he 's the same man . I think he 's immortal . I think he 's an alien from another world .」
narration:EXT . CLIVE 'S HOUSE
 Rose comes back to the car , talking before she 's even got in .
ROSE:「Alright ! He 's a nutter ! Off his head ! COMPLETE online conspiracy freak . You win ! Oof .」
narration:She gets into the car . The person sitting at the wheel is obviously not Mickey , but a plastic replica of him . Rose seems not to notice .
ROSE:「What 're we going to do tonight ? I fancy a pizza .」
MICKEY:「Pizzaaa ! P - p - p - pizza !」
ROSE:「... or a Chinese ...」
MICKEY:「Pizza !」
narration:They drive off in a wobbly line .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 INT . RESTAURANT
 Rose and Mickey sit at a table for two in a restaurant .
ROSE:「Do you think I should try the hospital ? Suki said they had a few jobs going in the canteen . That 's it then ... dishing out chips ... I could do A Levels ...」
narration:" Mickey " stares at her , grinning .
ROSE (  ):「I dunno . It 's all Jimmy Stone 's fault . I only left school because of him , and look where he ended up . What do you think ?」
PLASTIC MICKEY:「So , where did you meet this Doctor ?」
ROSE:「I 'm sorry , was n't I talking about me for a second ?」
PLASTIC MICKEY:「Because , I reckon it started back at the shop , am I right ? Is he something to do with that ?」

ROSE:「No ...」
PLASTIC MICKEY:「Come on .」
ROSE:「Sort of .」
PLASTIC MICKEY:「What was he doing there ?」
ROSE:「I 'm not going on about him , Mickey , I 'm not , because , I know it sounds daft but ... I do n't think he 's safe . I think he 's dangerous .」
PLASTIC MICKEY:「But you can trust me sweetheart ! ( In quick succession ) . Babe , sugar , darling , sugar .」
narration:Rose looks confused .
PLASTIC MICKEY (  ):「You can tell me anything . Tell me about the Doctor and what he 's planning , and I can help you , Rose . Because that 's all I really wanna do , sweetheart , babe , sugar , sweetheart .」
ROSE:「What 're you doing that for ?」
narration:A Waiter approaches the table .
WAITER:「Your champagne .」
PLASTIC MICKEY:「We did n't order any champagne . ( Grabs Rose 's hand ) . Where 's the Doctor ?」
narration:The Waiter has simply moved to the other side of the table and holds the bottle out to Rose .
WAITER:「Ma'am . Your champagne .」
ROSE:「It 's not ours ... Mickey , what is it ? What 's wrong ?」
MICKEY:「I need to find out how much you know , so where is he ?」
WAITER:「Does n't anybody want this champagne ?」
narration:Plastic Mickey , exasperated , raises his eyes to the waiter for the first time .
PLASTIC MICKEY:「Look , we did n't order i ... ( The Waiter is in fact the Doctor ) . Ah . Gotcha .」
narration:The Doctor shakes the bottle .
Doctor Who:「Do n't mind me . I 'm just toasting the happy couple . On the house !」

narration:The cork pops out and hits Mickey squarely on the forehead . His forehead absorbs the cork and he spits it out of his mouth . It is finally revealed to Rose that Mickey has in fact been replaced with an Auton .
PLASTIC MICKEY:「Anyway . ( His hands turn into clubs and he smashes the table in . Rose screams and runs out of the way . The Doctor grabs the Auton 's head and pulls it off ) . Do n't think that 's gon na stop me .」
narration:A couple at a nearby table scream , but the Doctor grins . Rose presses the fire bell .
ROSE:「Everyone out ! Out now !」
narration:Everyone runs for the exit . The Auton stays inside , blindly smashing tables with his club - hands .
ROSE (  ):「Get out ! Get out ! Get out !」
narration:Rose and the Doctor run through the kitchen and out of a back exit .
 EXT . BACK YARD
 With the Auton in hot pursuit . The Doctor locks a metal door with his sonic screwdriver while Rose tries desperately to find an escape out of the yard they are in . She bangs desperately at some locked gates .
ROSE:「Open the gate ! Use that tube thing , come on !」
Doctor Who:「What , this ? This is a sonic screwdriver .」
ROSE:「Use it !」

Doctor Who:「Nah . Tell ya what , let 's go in here .」
narration:He approaches a police box in the middle of the yard and unlocks it . The Auton is beginning to make dents in the door from the other side . Rose runs to look at it .
ROSE:「We ca n't hide inside a wooden box ! ( Runs to the gate and rattles the chains ) . It 's gon na get us ! Doctor !」
narration:She runs into the police box .
 INT . TARDIS
 Rose slams the door behind her , takes a few steps in , looks around , then runs straight back out again .
 EXT . BACK YARD
 She walks once around the police box and arrives back at the front again . The Auton finally makes a hole in the door , so she runs back into the police box .
 INT . TARDIS
ROSE:「It 's gon na follow us !」
Doctor Who:「The assembled hoards of Genghis Khan could n't get through that door , and believe me , they 've tried . Now , shut up a minute .」
narration:Rose stands trembling near the door of the TARDIS , looking around at how huge it is compared with the outside . The Doctor is wiring up the head of the Auton .

THE DOCTOR (  ):「You see , the arm is too simple , but the head 's perfect .」
narration:Rose still looks overwhelmed .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「I can use it to trace the signal back to the original source . Right . ( Turns to Rose , gives her his full attention ) . Where do you want to start ?」
ROSE:「Um ... the inside 's bigger than the outside ?」
Doctor Who:「Yes .」
ROSE:「It 's alien .」
Doctor Who:「Yup .」
ROSE:「Are you alien ?」
Doctor Who:「Yes . ( Rose stares ) . Is that alright ?」
ROSE ( quickly ):「Yeah .」
Doctor Who:「It 's called the TARDIS , this thing . T - A - R - D - I - S , that 's Time And Relative Dimension In Space . ( A small sob from Rose ) . That 's okay . Culture shock . Happens to the best of us .」
ROSE:「Did they kill him ? Mickey ? Did they kill Mickey ? Is he dead ?」
Doctor Who:「Oh ... did n't think of that .」

ROSE:「He 's my boyfriend . You pulled off his head . They copied him and you did n't even think ? And now you 're just going to let him melt ? !」
Doctor Who:「Melt ? ( Turns around in time to see " Mickey 's head melting with a bubbling noise ) . Oh , no , no , no , no , no , NO !」
narration:He starts running frantically around the console , pressing buttons and pulling levers .
ROSE:「What 're you doing ? !」
Doctor Who:「Reviving the signal , it 's fading ! Wait I 've got it ... ( Looks at screen ) . No , No , No , No , No , No , NO ! ( The TARDIS shakes as the engines move ) . Almost there ! Almost there ! Here we go !」
narration:The engines stop and the Doctor runs out the the TARDIS doors without another word .
ROSE:「You ca n't go out there , it 's not safe !」
narration:She follows him outside .
 EXT . THAMES EMBANKMENT , OPPOSITE LONDON EYE
Doctor Who:「I lost the signal , I got so close .」
narration:Rose hops out of the TARDIS , looking confused again .
ROSE:「We 've moved ! Does it fly ?」

Doctor Who:「Disappears there , reappears here , you would n't understand .」
ROSE:「But if we 're somewhere else , what about that headless thing ? It 's still on the loose .」
Doctor Who:「It melted with the head , are you going to witter on all night ?」
ROSE:「I 'll have to tell his mother ...」
narration:The Doctor looks at her questioningly .
ROSE:「Mickey ! I 'll have to tell his mother he 's dead , and you just went and forgot him , again !」
narration:The Doctor rolls his eyes , unconcerned .
ROSE:「You were right , you ARE alien .」
narration:She turns to walk away .
Doctor Who:「Look , if I did forget some kid called Mickey ...」
ROSE:「Yeah , he 's not a kid .」
Doctor Who:「It 's because I 'm trying to save the life of every stupid ape blundering on top of this planet , alright ?」
ROSE:「Alright !」
Doctor Who:「Yes ! It is !」
narration:Rose shakes her head disbelievingly .
ROSE:「If you are an alien , then how comes you sound like you 're from the North ?」

Doctor Who:「Lots of planets have a North .」
narration:He folds his arms indignantly and looks away .
ROSE:「What 's a police public call box ?」
Doctor Who:「It 's a telephone box from the 1950s . ( Pats the TARDIS fondly , grinning ) . It 's a disguise .」
narration:Rose smiles and shakes her head .
ROSE:「Okay . And this living plastic , what 's it got against us ?」
Doctor Who:「Nothing , it loves you . You 've got such a good planet . Lots of smoke and oil , plenty of toxins and dioxins in the air ... perfect . Just what the Nestene Consciousness needs . It 's food stock was destroyed in the war , all its protein plants rotted , so Earth ... dinner !」
ROSE:「Any way of stopping it ?」
narration:Grinning , the Doctor produces a tube of blue liquid from his jacket .
Doctor Who:「Anti - plastic !」
ROSE:「Anti - plastic ...」
Doctor Who:「Anti - plastic ! But first I 've got to find it . How can you hide something that big in a city this small ?」
ROSE:「Hold on ... hide what ?」

Doctor Who:「The transmitter . The Consciousness is controlling every single piece of plastic so it needs a transmitter to boost the signal .」
ROSE:「What 's it look like ?」
Doctor Who:「Like a transmitter . Round and massive , slap bang in the middle of London .」
narration:He paces around , agitated , looking around for a clue .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「A huge circular metal structure ... like a dish ...」
narration:He stands facing Rose , his back to the railings of the bridge . Behind him , the London Eye looms 450 foot above them , but he does n't seem to register .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「... like a wheel . Close to where we 're standing . Must be completely invisible .」
narration:Rose considers the Eye behind him .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「What ?」
narration:Rose nods towards the Eye . The Doctor turns around , then back to her , completely nonplussed .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「What ?」
narration:Rose shakes her head , looking at the Eye still . He turns around but still fails to make the connection .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「What is it ? What ?」
narration:Rose simply carries on staring at it . The Doctor turns around again and finally , it clicks .

THE DOCTOR (  ):「Oh ... fantastic !」
narration:He grins inanely and runs off .
 EXT . LONDON BRIDGE
 Hand in hand , the Doctor and Rose run across London Bridge towards the Eye .
 EXT . LONDON EYE
 They come to a halt at the foot of the Eye .
Doctor Who:「Think of it . Plastic , all over the world . Every artificial thing waiting to come alive . The shop window dummies , the phones , the wires , the cables ...」
ROSE:「The breast implants ...」
Doctor Who:「Still , we 've found the transmitter . The Consciousness must be somewhere underneath .」
narration:Rose runs off and finds the entrance to a manhole at the foot of the wall she is looking over .
ROSE:「What about down here ?」
narration:The Doctor runs to join her .
Doctor Who:「Looks good to me .」
narration:They run down the stairs to the manhole . The Doctor takes the lid off it , and red light and smoke pours out . They both climb down the ladder underground .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 The Doctor opens the door to another chamber and they go down some steps . The Doctor points to a huge , orange , wobbling mass in the middle of the chamber .

Doctor Who:「The Nestene Consciousness , that 's it , inside the vat . A living , plastic creature .」
ROSE:「Well , then . Tip in your anti - plastic and let 's go .」
Doctor Who:「I 'm not here to kill it . I 've got to give it a chance .」
narration:They go down some more steps . The Doctor leans over the railings and addresses the Consciouness .
Doctor Who:「I seek audience with the Nestene Consciousness under peaceful contract . According to convention 15 of the Shadow Proclamation .」
narration:The Consciouness flobbles around a bit .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Thank you . That I might have permission to approach .」
narration:Meanwhile , as Rose paces around in the background , she spots Mickey and runs to him . The Doctor rolls his eyes .
ROSE:「Oh , my God ! Mickey ! It 's okay ! It 's alright !」
narration:She squats down next to him .
MICKEY:「That thing down there , the liquid , Rose , it can talk !」
ROSE:「You 're stinking ! Doctor , they kept him alive !」
Doctor Who:「Yeah , that was always a possibility . Keep him alive to maintain the copy .」

ROSE:「You knew that and you never said ?」
Doctor Who:「Can we keep the domestics outside , thank you ?」
narration:Rose helps Mickey to his feet . The Doctor approaches the Consciousness .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Am I addressing the Consciousness ? Thank you . If I might observe , you infiltrated this civilization by means of warped , shunt technology . So , may I suggest , with the greatest respect , that you shunt off ?」
narration:The plastic globbers in what appears to be a negative manner .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Oh do n't give me that , it 's an invasion ! Plain and simple ! Do n't talk about constitutional rights !」
narration:The plastic rears what would appear to be its head angrily .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「I ... am ... talking ! This planet is just starting . These stupid little people have only just learnt how to walk , but they 're capable of so much more . I 'm asking you on their behalf - please , just go .」
narration:Two Autons approach the Doctor from behind .
ROSE:「Doctor !」
narration:The Autons grab him . One of them takes the anti - plastic out of his jacket pocket .
Doctor Who:「That was just insurance ! I was n't going to USE it .」

narration:The plastic globbers angrily .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「I was not attacking you . I 'm here to help . I 'm not your enemy . I swear , I 'm not ... what do you mean ?」
narration:Doors above him open to reveal the TARDIS .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Oh , oh no , honestly , no ! Yes , that 's my ship .」
narration:The plastic roars .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「That 's not true . I should know , I was there . I fought in the war . It was n't my fault ! I could n't save your world ! I could n't save any of them !」
ROSE:「What 's it doing ? !」
Doctor Who:「It 's the TARDIS ! The Nestene has identified its superior technology . It 's terrified ! It 's going to the final base . It 's starting the invasion ! Get out , Rose ! Just leg it ! Now !」
narration:Rose dials a number on her mobile .
ROSE:「Mum ? !」
narration:EXT . TOWN CENTRE
 Jackie is going down the steps of a police station .

JACKIE:「Oh , there you are , I was just gon na phone . You can get compensation . I said so . I 've got this document thing off the police - do n't thank me !」
narration:INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
ROSE:「Where are you , mum ?」
narration:EXT . TOWN CENTRE
JACKIE:「I 'm in town !」
narration:INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
ROSE:「Go home ! Just go home , right now !」
narration:EXT . TOWN CENTRE
JACKIE:「Darling , you 're breaking up , look , I 'm just going to do a bit of late night shopping . I 'll see you later . Tara !」
narration:She hangs up .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
ROSE:「Mum ? ! Mum !」
narration:EXT . TOWN CENTRE
 Jackie heads into the Queens Arcade shopping centre .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 The Consciousness sends out a signal .
Doctor Who:「It 's the activation signal ! It 's transmitting !」
narration:EXT . LONDON EYE
 The electric blue signal shoots around the Eye .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE

ROSE:「The end of the world ...」
narration:EXT . LONDON EYE
 The activation signal transmits from the London Eye .
 INT . QUEEN 'S ARCADE
 Clive is in the shopping centre , talking to his wife .
CLIVE:「There 's no point creating a spreadsheet if you 're going to spend summer money in winter months .」
narration:Caroline gasps as she walks past a shop window and the dummy taps the glass .
CAROLINE:「Oh my God ! I thought they were dummies ! I nearly had a heart - attack !」
narration:They look around and all the dummies are doing the same . Clive 's wife smiles appreciatively ... until they punch their way through the glass and step out of the windows . Jackie is coming down an escalator and looks in disbelief at the dummies walking around .
CLIVE:「It 's true . Everything I read , all the stories ! It 's all true !」
narration:A dummy turns towards him . Its hand comes off and reveals a gun , which shoots him . Clive 's wife and son scream .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 The Doctor is still being held hostage .
Doctor Who:「Get out , Rose ! Just get out ! Run !」
narration:Part of the ceiling falls in .

ROSE:「The stairs have gone !」
narration:Rose and Mickey try desperately to get into the TARDIS .
ROSE (  ):「I have n't got the key !」
MICKEY:「We 're gon na die !」
narration:INT . QUEEN 'S ARCADE
 The shopping centre is in chaos . Jackie stands at the bottom of the escalator looking confused for a few seconds , then screams and runs , dropping her shopping bag .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 Mickey and Rose are still cowering at the door of the TARDIS .
 EXT . STREET
 Outside , Jackie finds that there is just as much chaos outside the shopping centre as there is inside . An army of dummies come out of the doors . Jackie runs down the road and ducks behind a car outside a wedding shop . The dummies in the window punch through the glass . Jackie screams .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 Rose watches the Doctor struggle to get to the anti - plastic , then seems to reach some kind of decision . She stands up .
MICKEY:「Just leave him !」
narration:EXT . STREET
 The wedding dummies advance dangerously on Jackie . All three hold their arms out ready to shoot .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 Rose takes action .
MICKEY (  ):「There 's nothing you can do !」
narration:Rose picks up an axe .
ROSE:「I 've got no A Levels .」
narration:EXT . STREET
 The dummies raise their guns .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
ROSE (  ):「No job ...」
narration:EXT . STREET
 The hands open to reveal the space where the bullets can be released .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
ROSE (  ):「No future .」
narration:EXT . STREET
 Jackie cowers . Rose hacks at a chain on the wall , trying to release it .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
ROSE (  ):「But I tell you what I have got . Jericho Street Junior School under 7s gymnastic team .」
narration:The chain comes loose and Rose grabs onto it .
ROSE (  ):「I got the bronze !」
narration:Rose swings across the gap over the Consciousness . She kicks the Autons holding the Doctor hostage into the Nestene , anti - plastic and all . The Consciousness starts to writhe and scream . Rose lands safely in the Doctor 's arms at the other side of the gap .
Doctor Who:「Now we 're in trouble .」

narration:The Consciousness starts to explode as Rose and the Doctor run off . The signal from the Eye is cut off .
 EXT . STREET
 The Autons in the high street that were previously attacking people , stop , and start to twitch as if they are doing some kind of dance . Jackie uncovers her eyes warily .
 INT . UNDERNEATH LONDON EYE
 Rose , the Doctor and Mickey all manage to reach the TARDIS . Rose grins at the Consciousness before she goes in and closes the door , as it starts to die . Just before the whole chamber goes up in flames , the TARDIS disappears .
 EXT . STREET
 The dummies all fall to the ground , twitching at first , but dead .
 EXT . ALLEYWAY
 Mickey runs backwards out of the TARDIS and falls over , looking terrified . He backs against a wall . Rose , however , steps out and rings her mother on her mobile .
 EXT . STREET
JACKIE ( answers phone ):「Rose ! Rose ! Do n't go out of the house , it 's not safe !」
narration:EXT . ALLEYWAY
 Rose laughs in relief to hear Jackie 's voice .
 EXT . STREET
JACKIE (  ):「There were all of these things ! And they were shooting ! And they ...」
narration:EXT . ALLEYWAY
 Satisfied that Jackie is alive , Rose hangs up on her , smiling to herself .
 EXT . STREET
JACKIE (  ):「Hello ? Hello ?」
narration:EXT . ALLEYWAY
 Rose runs over to Mickey .
ROSE:「A fat lot of good you were !」
narration:Mickey whimpers . The Doctor stands in the doorway of the TARDIS .
Doctor Who:「Nestene Consciousness ? ( Clicks fingers ) . Easy .」

ROSE ( teasingly ):「You were useless in there . You 'd be dead if it was n't for me .」
Doctor Who:「Yes , I would . Thank you . Right then ! I 'll be off ! Unless , uh ... I do n't know ... you could come with me .」
narration:Rose looks at him and puts her hands in her pockets .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「This box is n't just a London hopper , you know , it goes anywhere in the universe free of charge .」
MICKEY:「Do n't ! He 's an alien ! He 's a thing !」
Doctor Who:「He 's NOT invited . What do you think ? You could stay here and fill your life with work and food and sleep , or you could go , uh ... anywhere .」
ROSE:「Is it always this dangerous ?」
THE DOCTOR ( nods ):「Yeah .」
narration:Mickey puts his arms around Rose 's legs like a little child .
ROSE:「Yeah , I ca n't ... I 've um ... got ta go and find my mum and um ... someone 's got ta look after this stupid lump ... ( Small laugh , pats Mickey on the back ) . So ...」
Doctor Who:「Okay . See you around .」

narration:Rose looks at him intensely , as if she still has n't really made up her mind . The Doctor does not take his eyes off her , but closes the door . Rose looks at the closed door . The engines of the TARDIS rev up , and it slowly disappears . Rose stares at the space where it was , lost in thought .
ROSE:「Come on , let 's go .」
narration:Mickey is in absolute shock , staring at the empty space where the TARDIS stood .
ROSE (  ):「C 'm on ... come on ...」
narration:She helps him to his feet and they begin to walk away . However , the sound of the engines is heard again . Rose and Mickey spin around . The TARDIS reappears . The Doctor pops his head out .
Doctor Who:「By the way ... Did I mention , it also travels in time ?」

narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Mister Sneed crosses a room where a woman lies dead in her coffin and a man stands over her . The man 's name is Redpath . Sneed lights a gas lamp . He walks to the mans side .
SNEED:「Sneed and Company offer their sincerest condolences , sir . In this most trying hour .」
REDPATH:「Grandmamma had a good innings , Mr. Sneed . She was so full of life . I ca n't believe she 's gone .」
SNEED:「Not gone , Mr. Redpath , sir . Merely sleeping .」
narration:A short silence .
REDPATH:「May I have a moment ?」
SNEED:「Yes , of course . I shall be in the next room , should you require anything .」
narration:He leaves Redpath alone with his Grandmother . Redpath , with his head bowed in grief , does not notice the gas enter her dead body and her eyes snap open . She suddenly grabs Redpath by the neck and throttles him . Mister Sneed bursts back into the room upon hearing the commotion .
SNEED:「Oh , no .」
narration:The old woman twists her grandson 's neck around and he falls to the floor . Redpath tries to wrestle the lid back on the coffin .
SNEED (  ):「Gwyneth ! Get down here now ! We 've got another one !」
narration:He is not strong enough to get the lid back on the coffin and the old woman kicks the side off .
 EXT . SNEED AND COMPANY , STREET
 Mrs Pearce walks from the house , wailing .
 OPENING CREDITS
 INT . TARDIS
 Inside the TARDIS , it is mayhem . The whole ship is shaking and alarm is going off .
Doctor Who:「Hold that one down !」

ROSE:「I 'm HOLDING this one down !」
Doctor Who:「Well , hold them BOTH down !」
ROSE:「It 's not going to work !」
Doctor Who:「Oi ! I promised you a time machine and that 's what you 're getting . Now , you 've seen the future , let 's have a look at the past . 1860 . How does 1860 sound ?」
ROSE:「What happened in 1860 ?」
Doctor Who:「I do n't know , let 's find out . Hold on , here we go !」
narration:The TARDIS screeches through the time vortex .
 INT . SNEED 'S KITCHEN
 Mr. Sneed is dabbing at his forehead .
SNEED:「Gwyneth ! Where are you , girl ? Gwyneth ! ( Gwyneth appears ) . Where 've you been ? I was shouting !」
GWYNETH:「I 've been in the stables , sir , bringing the ice for old Sampson .」
SNEED:「Well , get back in there and harness him up .」
GWYNETH:「Whatever for , sir ?」

SNEED:「The stiffs are getting lively again . Mr. Redpath 's grandmother , she 's up and on her feet and out there somewhere , on the streets ! We 've got to find her !」
GWYNETH:「Mr. Sneed , for shame ! How many more times ? It 's ungodly !」
SNEED:「Do n't look at me like it 's my fault ! Now come on , hurry up ! She was 86 . She ca n't have got far .」
GWYNETH:「What about Mr. Redpath ? Did you deal with him ?」
SNEED:「No . She did .」
GWYNETH:「That 's awful , sir . I know it 's not my place , and please , forgive me for talking out of turn , sir . But this is getting beyond , now . ( Sneed nods ) . Something terrible is happening in this house , and we 've got to get help .」
SNEED:「And we will ! As soon as we get that dead old woman locked up and safe and sound . Now stop prevaricating girl , get the hearse ready . We 're going body snatching .」
narration:EXT . STREET AND ALLEYWAY
 The TARDIS materializes on a deserted street . Snow is falling .
 INT . TARDIS
 The controls are steaming and both the Doctor and Rose are lying on the floor laughing . They get up .
ROSE:「Blimey !」
Doctor Who:「You 're telling me ! Are you alright ?」

ROSE:「Yeah . I think so ! Nothing broken ... did we make it ? Where are we ?」
THE DOCTOR ( studying the screen ):「I did it ! Give the man a medal . Earth , Naples , December 24th , 1860 .」
ROSE:「That 's so weird ... it 's Christmas .」
narration:The Doctor gestures towards the door .
Doctor Who:「All yours .」
ROSE:「But , it 's like ... think about it , though . Christmas . 1860 . Happens once . Just once , and it 's gone . It 's finished . It 'll never happen again . Except for you . ( Studies him intently ) . You can go back and see days that are dead and gone and a hundred thousand sunsets ago ... no wonder you never stay still ...」
Doctor Who:「Not a bad life .」
ROSE:「Better with two .」
narration:They grin at each other for a few moments . Then Rose slaps his bum and dashes towards the door .
ROSE (  ):「Come on then !」
Doctor Who:「Oi , oi , oi ! Where do you think you 're going ? !」
ROSE:「1860 !」

Doctor Who:「Go out there dressed like that , you 'll start a riot , Barbarella ! There 's a wardrobe through there . First left , second right , third on the left , go straight ahead , under the stairs , past the bins , it 's the fifth door on your left . Hurry up !」
narration:Rose rushes off to get changed . The Doctor grins after her .
 EXT . STREET
 Sneed and Gwyneth are driving through the streets looking for the old woman .
SNEED:「Not a sign . Where is she ?」
GWYNETH:「She 's vanished into the ether sir , where can she be ?」
narration:Sneed stops the hearse and looks at Gwyneth .
SNEED:「You tell me , girl .」
GWYNETH:「What do you mean ?」
SNEED:「Gwyneth , you know full well .」
GWYNETH:「No , sir . I ca n't .」
SNEED:「Use the sight .」
GWYNETH:「It 's not right , sir .」
SNEED:「Find the old lady . Or you 're dismissed .」
narration:Gwyneth looks anxious .
SNEED (  ):「Now , look inside , girl . Look deep . Where is she ?」

narration:Gwyneth closes her eyes .
GWYNETH:「She 's lost , sir . She 's so alone . Oh , my lord . So many strange things in her head .」
SNEED:「But where ?」
GWYNETH:「She 's excited . About tonight . Before she passed on , she was going to see him .」
SNEED:「Who 's " him " ?」
GWYNETH:「A great man . All the way from London . The great , great man .」
narration:INT . DRESSING ROOM
 There is a knocking at a door . An old man - Charles Dickens is kneading his forehead inside the room .
STAGE MANAGER:「Mr. Dickens ! Mr. Dickens ! Excuse me , sir , Mr. Dickens , this is your call .」
narration:Mr. Dickens does not respond . The stage manager comes into the room .
STAGE MANAGER:「Are you quite well , sir ?」
DICKENS:「Splendid , splendid . Sorry .」
STAGE MANAGER:「Time you were on , Sir .」
DICKENS:「Absolutely . I was just ... brooding . ( Stage manager throws him questioning look ) . Christmas Eve . Not the best of times to be alone .」
STAGE MANAGER:「Did no one travel with you , sir ? An old lady wife waiting out front ?」
DICKENS:「I 'm afraid not .」
STAGE MANAGER ( laughs ):「You can have mine if you want .」
DICKENS:「Oh , I would n't dare . I 've been rather , let 's say , clumsy , with family matters . By God , I 'm too old to cause any more trouble .」
STAGE MANAGER:「You speak as though it 's all over , sir !」
DICKENS:「Oh , no , it 's never over . On and on I go . The same old show .」
narration:They look at the poster announcing his show .
DICKENS:「I 'm like a ghost , condemned to repeat myself ... ( Stands ) ... for all eternity .」
STAGE MANAGER:「It 's never too late , sir . You could always think up some new turns .」
DICKENS:「No , I ca n't . Even my imagination grows stale . ( Takes long swig of drink ) . I 'm an old man . Perhaps I 've thought everything I 'll ever think . Still ! The lure of the lime - light ! As potent as a pipe what , eh ? ( Stage manager helps him change his jacket ) . On with the show .」
narration:INT . TARDIS
 In the TARDIS , the Doctor is doing some more unnecessary repair work . Rose swans in and he turns off his sonic screwdriver and looks at her in surprise .
Doctor Who:「Blimey !」

ROSE:「Do n't laugh !」
Doctor Who:「You look beautiful !」
narration:Rose stops laughing and smiles instead . There is a pause and the Doctor looks away awkwardly .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「... considering .」
narration:He turns on his screwdriver again .
ROSE:「Considering what ?」
Doctor Who:「That you 're human !」
ROSE ( amused ):「I think that 's a compliment ... Are n't you going to change ?」
Doctor Who:「I 've changed my jumper ! Come on !」
narration:He jumps out of the space beneath the controls .
ROSE:「You , stay there ! You 've done this before . This is mine !」
narration:She hurries towards the door and opens it .
 EXT . STREET AND ALLEYWAY
 Rose looks out onto the 1860 street . She makes one footprint in the untouched snow then withdraws her foot again . Then she steps out altogether . The Doctor follows her .
Doctor Who:「Ready for this ?」
narration:She smiles and he offers her his arm . She takes it .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Here we go . History !」

narration:They walk off together .
 INT . THEATRE
 The curtains open for Dickens ' show . The audience applaud . The dead old woman is sitting slap bang in the middle of them .
 EXT . CARDIFF SQUARE
 The Doctor and Rose walk down the street , observing everything . Rose in amazement , the Doctor with his usual grin on his face . He walks in another direction and Rose follows . There are carol singers in the background .
 EXT . CARDIFF SQUARE
 Sneed and Gwyneth arrive at the theatre .
GWYNETH:「She 's in there , sir , I 'm certain of it .」
narration:They alight from the hearse .
 EXT . CARDIFF SQUARE
 Not far away , the Doctor is buying a newspaper . He unfolds it and scans it .
Doctor Who:「I got the flight a bit wrong .」
ROSE:「I do n't care .」
Doctor Who:「It 's not 1860 , it 's 1869 .」
ROSE:「I do n't care !」
Doctor Who:「And it 's not Naples .」
ROSE:「I do n't care .」
Doctor Who:「It 's Cardiff .」
ROSE ( pauses ):「Right ...」
narration:INT . THEATRE
 Dickens is talking to a rapt audience .

DICKENS:「Now , it is a fact , that there was nothing particular about the knocker on the door of this house . But let any man explain to me if he can , how it happened , that Scrooge , having his key in the lock of the door , saw in the knocker , without it 's undergoing any intermediate process of change , not a knocker - but Marley 's face . ( Audience gasp ) . Marley 's face ! It looked at Scrooge as Marley used to look . It looked like ...」
narration:The gas is escaping from the old woman . Dickens , seeing as how he is the only one facing the audience , is the only one to notice .
DICKENS (  ):「Oh , my lord ! It looked ... like that ! ( Points a trembling finger at the old woman ) . What phantasmagoria is this ?」
narration:The woman has risen in her seat . She lets out a long , loud wail . The audience scream and trample each other in their hurry to get away .
 EXT . CARDIFF SQUARE
 The Doctor and Rose hear the screaming . The Doctor grins .
Doctor Who:「That 's more like it !」

narration:He tosses the newspaper over his shoulder and runs in the direction of the screaming . Rose follows .
 INT . THEATRE
 Dickens is desperately trying to get his audience to sit down again .
DICKENS:「Stay in your seats , I beg you . It is a lantern show , it 's trickery .」
narration:Sneed and Gwyneth are struggling against the crowds to enter .
GWYNETH:「There she is , sir !」
SNEED:「I can see that !」
narration:The gas zooms around the room .
SNEED (  ):「The whole bloomin ' world can see that !」
narration:The Doctor and Rose enter . They watch the gas zoom around .
Doctor Who:「Fantastic .」
narration:The last of the gas leaves the old woman 's mouth and she slumps back in the chair , just a dead body once more . The Doctor approaches Mr. Dickens .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Did you see where it came from ?」
DICKENS:「Ah . The wag reveals himself , does he ? I trust you 're satisfied , sir !」
narration:The Doctor looks slightly taken aback .
ROSE:「Oi ! Leave her alone !」
narration:Sneed and Gwyneth are making off with the old woman 's body .

ROSE (  ):「Doctor , I 'll get 'em !」
Doctor Who:「Be careful ! ( Jumps onto stage ) . Did it say anything ? Could it speak ? I 'm The Doctor , by the way .」
DICKENS:「Doctor ? You look more like a navy .」
THE DOCTOR ( indignantly ):「What 's wrong with this jumper ?」
narration:EXT . CARDIFF SQUARE
 Gwyneth and Sneed have successfully loaded the body into the back of the hearse . Rose catches up with them .
ROSE:「What 're you doing ? !」
GWYNETH:「Oh , it 's such a tragedy , miss . Do n't worry yourself , me and the master will deal with it . ( Tries to bar Rose from seeing inside the hearse ) . The fact is , this poor lady 's been taken with the brain fever and we have to get her to the infirmary .」
narration:Rose pushes Gwyneth aside and feels the old woman 's forehead .
ROSE:「She 's cold ... She 's dead ! My God , what did you do to her ?」
narration:Sneed approaches her silently from behind and clamps a tissue full of a drug , probably chloroform , to her mouth . She struggles for a few seconds and then goes limp .

GWYNETH ( shocked ):「What did you do that for ?」
SNEED:「She 's seen too much . Get her in the hearse !」
narration:Gwyneth bends down to pick up Rose 's legs .
 INT . THEATRE
 The blue gas is still zooming around inside . It dives into one of the gas lamps and disappears .
Doctor Who:「Gas ! It 's made of gas !」
narration:EXT . CARDIFF SQUARE
 By the time the Doctor comes down the steps of the theatre , Gwyneth has just finished pushing Rose 's head out of sight into the hearse . She slams the door shut .
Doctor Who:「Rose !」
narration:He runs towards the hearse .
DICKENS:「You 're not escaping me , sir ! What do you know about that hobgoblin , hm ?」
narration:The hearse drives away . The Doctor stares after it .
DICKENS:「Projection on glass , I suppose . Who put you up to it ?」
Doctor Who:「Yeah , mate . Not now , thanks .」
narration:The Doctor spots a coach and runs towards it , shouting to the driver .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Oi , you ! Follow that hearse !」
narration:He jumps into the coach .

DICKENS:「You ca n't do that , sir !」
Doctor Who:「Why not ?」
DICKENS:「Why not ? ! I 'll give you a very good reason why not ! This is my coach !」
Doctor Who:「Well , get in then ! ( Pulls Dickens in . To the driver- ) . Move !」
narration:The coach rumbles off .
DRIVER:「Everything in order , Mr. Dickens ?」
DICKENS:「No ! It is not !」
Doctor Who:「What did he say ?」
DICKENS:「Let me say this first . I 'm not without a sense of humour ...」
Doctor Who:「Dickens ?」
DICKENS:「Yes .」
Doctor Who:「Charles Dickens ?」
DICKENS:「Yes .」
Doctor Who:「THE Charles Dickens ?」
DRIVER:「Shall I remove the gentleman , sir ?」
Doctor Who:「Charles Dickens ! You 're brilliant , you are ! Completely 100 % brilliant ! I 've read 'em all ! Great Expectations , Oliver Twist and what 's the other one , the one with the ghost ?」
DICKENS:「A Christmas Carol ?」

narration:THE DOCTOR No , no , no , the one with the trains ... The Signal Man , that 's it , terrifying !
 Dickens looks pleased
 . The best short story ever written ! You 're a genius !
DRIVER:「You want me to get rid of him , sir ?」
DICKENS:「Er , no , I think he can stay .」
Doctor Who:「Honestly , Charles , can I call you Charles ? I 'm such a big fan .」
DICKENS:「... what ? A what ?」
Doctor Who:「Fan ! Number One Fan , that 's me .」
DICKENS:「How exactly are you a fan ? In what way do you resemble a means of keeping oneself cool ?」
Doctor Who:「No , it means " Fanatic " , devoted to . Mind you , I 've got ta say , that American bit in Martin Chuzzlewit , what was that about ? ! Was that just padding or what ? I mean , it 's rubbish , that bit .」
DICKENS ( disgruntled ):「I thought you said you were my fan .」
Doctor Who:「Ah , well , if you ca n't take criticism ... go on , do the death of Little Nell , it cracks me up . No , sorry , come on , faster !」
narration:The driver urges the horses on .

DICKENS:「Who exactly IS in that hearse ?」
Doctor Who:「My friend . She 's only nineteen , and it 's my fault . She 's in my care , and now she 's in danger .」
DICKENS:「Why are we wasting my time talking about dry old books ? This is much more important . Driver ! Be swift ! The chase is on !」
DRIER:「Yes , sir !」
THE DOCTOR ( delighted ):「Thatta boy , Charlie !」
DICKENS:「Nobody calls me Charlie .」
Doctor Who:「The ladies do .」
DICKENS:「How do you know that ?」
Doctor Who:「I told you ... I 'm your Number One ...」
DICKENS:「Number One Fan , yes ...」
narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Gwyneth and Sneed have one end each of Rose .
GWYNETH:「The poor girl 's still alive , sir ! What 're we going to do with her ?」
narration:They settle her down on a table that is evidently used for dead bodies .
SNEED:「I do n't know ! I did n't plan any of this , did I. Is n't my fault if the dead wo n't stay dead .」

GWYNETH:「Then whose fault is it , sir ? Why is this happening to us ?」
narration:They leave the room , shutting and locking Rose in . A gas lamp flickers .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
SNEED:「I did the Bishop a favour , once . Made his nephew look like a cherub . Even though he 'd been a fortnight in the weir . Perhaps he 'll do us an exorcism on the cheap .」
narration:There is a knock on the door . They both look up , alarmed .
SNEED (  ):「Say I 'm not in . Tell them we 're closed . Just ... just get rid of them .」
narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Rose wakes up . She looks slightly out of sorts , and does not notice when the gas from the lamps fills the corpse of Redpath . He sits up suddenly .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
 Dickens knocks on the door again and Gywneth opens it .
GWYNETH:「I 'm sorry , sir , we 're closed .」
DICKENS:「Nonsense ! Since when did an undertaker keep office hours ? The dead do n't die on schedule . I demand to see your master .」
GWYNETH:「He 's not in , sir .」
narration:She makes to shut the door , but Dickens forces it open again .
DICKENS ( angrily ):「Do n't lie to me , child !」
GWYNETH:「I 'm awfully sorry , Mr. Dickens , but the mater 's indisposed .」
narration:Behind her , a gas lamp flares up .
Doctor Who:「Having trouble with your gas ?」

DICKENS:「What the Shakespeare is going on ?」
narration:INT . CHAPEL OF RST
 Rose suddenly notices the corpse behind her . She jumps in alarm as he starts making zombie noises at her .
ROSE:「Are you all right ? You 're kidding me , yeah ? You 're just kidding .」
narration:He climbs out of the coffin .
ROSE (  ):「You are , you 're kidding me , are n't ya ?」
narration:He takes staggering steps towards her .
ROSE (  ):「Okay , not kidding .」
narration:She runs to the door and tries to open it .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
 The Doctor forces his way in and presses his ear to the wall .
GWYNETH:「You 're not allowed inside , sir !」
Doctor Who:「There 's something inside the walls .」
narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Rose backs against the door . The old woman 's body rises from the other coffin and Rose gaps .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
Doctor Who:「The gas pipes . Something 's living inside the gas .」

narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Rose lobs a vase at Redpath . It does nothing but cause him to stumble slightly . Rose rattles the handle frantically .
ROSE:「Let me out ! Open the door !」
narration:INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
 Gwyneth , the Doctor and Dickens hear her . Gwyneth closes her eyes in dismay .
Doctor Who:「That 's her .」
narration:He runs off to her rescue . Dickens 's follows .
 INT . CHAPEL OF REST
ROSE:「Please , let me out !」
narration:Both corpses are walking towards her .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , CORRIDOR
 The Doctor charges past Sneed .
SNEED:「This is my house !」
narration:Dickens charges past him too . He shakes his finger at Gwyneth as she runs after them .
SNEED (  ):「I told you !」
narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Rose is still hammering on the door as the corpses get closer and closer .
ROSE:「Let me out ! Somebody , open the door ! Open the door !」
narration:Redpath clasps a hand over her mouth , muffling her scream . At that moment , the Doctor kicks the door in .

Doctor Who:「I think this is my dance .」
narration:He releases Rose from Redpath 's grip .
DICKENS:「It 's a prank ? It must be . We 're under some mesmeric influence .」
Doctor Who:「No , we 're not . The dead are walking . ( Grins down at the panting Rose ) . Hi !」
ROSE:「Hi ! Who 's your friend ?」
Doctor Who:「Charles Dickens .」
ROSE:「Oh . Okay .」
THE DOCTOR ( to the corpses ):「My name 's the Doctor . Who are you , then ? What do you want ?」
REDPATH:「We 're failing . Open the rift , we 're dying . Trapped in this form , can not sustain , help us .」
narration:Both Redpath and his grandmother raise their heads to the ceiling . The blue gas leaves them with a wailing sound and both corpses fall to the floor .
 INT . SNEED 'S PARLOUR
 Gwyneth is pouring them all tea while Rose is having a go at Sneed .
ROSE:「First of all you drug me , then you kidnap me , and do n't think I did n't feel your hands having a quick wander , you dirty old man .」
narration:The Doctor sniggers .

SNEED:「I wo n't be spoken to like this !」
ROSE:「Then you stuck me in a room full of zombies ! And if that ai n't enough , you swan off ! And leave me to die ! So come on , talk !」
SNEED:「It 's not my fault , it 's this house ! It always had a reputation . Haunted . But I never had much bother until a few months back . And then the stiffs ...」
narration:Dickens looks mildly offended .
SNEED:「... the er , dear departed started getting restless .」
DICKENS:「Tommyrot .」
SNEED:「You witnessed it ! Ca n't keep the beggars down , sir ! They walk . And it 's the queerest thing that they hang on to scraps ...」
narration:Gwyneth gives the Doctor his tea .
GWYNETH:「Two sugars , sir , just how you like it .」
narration:The Doctor looks at her retreating back curiously .
SNEED:「One old fella who used to be a sexton almost walked into his own memorial service ! Just like the old lady going to your performance , sir ! Just as she planned .」
DICKENS:「Morbid fancy .」
Doctor Who:「Oh , Charles , you were there .」

DICKENS:「I saw nothing but an illusion .」
Doctor Who:「If you 're going to deny it , do n't waste my time . Just shut up .」
narration:Dickens is stunned .
THE DOCTOR (  ) ( to Sneed ):「What about the gas ?」
SNEED:「That 's new , sir , never seen anything like that .」
Doctor Who:「Means it 's getting stronger , the rift 's getting wider and something 's sneaking through .」
ROSE:「What 's the rift ?」
Doctor Who:「A weak point in time and space . The connection between this place and another . That 's the cause of ghost stories , most of the time .」
SNEED ( with revelation ):「That 's how I got the house so cheap .」
narration:Dickens sneaks un - noticed from the room .
SNEED:「Stories going back generations . Echoes in the dark . Queer songs in the air and this feeling like a ... shadow . Passing over your soul . Mind you , truth be told , it 's been good for business . Just what people expect from a gloomy old trade like mine .」
narration:INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , CORRIDOR
 Dickens , wandering the corridors alone , examines the gas lamps .

DICKENS:「Impossible .」
narration:INT . CHAPEL OF REST
 Dickens goes back into the room where Rose was locked up and takes the lid off Redpath 's coffin , where Redpath is lying peacefully , his arms crossed across his chest . He waves his hands in front of his face , shakes him a bit , and fumbles around underneath the coffin , all the time oblivious to the Doctor watching him with his arms folded in the doorway .
Doctor Who:「Checking for strings ?」
DICKENS:「Wires , perhaps ? There must be some mechanism behind this fraud !」
narration:The Doctor unfolds his arms and walks over to Dickens .
Doctor Who:「Oh , come on , Charles . All right . I should n't have told you to shut up . ( Places a hand on Dickens ' shoulder ) . I 'm sorry . But you 've got one of the best minds in the world . You saw those gas creatures .」
DICKENS:「I can not accept that .」
Doctor Who:「And what does the human body do when it decomposes ? It breaks down and produces gas . Perfect home for these gas things , they can slip inside and use it as a vehicle . Just like your driver and his coach .」
DICKENS:「Stop it ! Can it be that I have the world entirely wrong ?」

Doctor Who:「Not wrong . There 's just more to learn .」
DICKENS:「I 've always railed against the fantasies . Oh , I loved an illusion as much as the next man , revelled in them , that 's what they were . Illusions ! The real world is something else . I dedicated myself to that . Injustices . Great social causes . I hoped that I was a force for good . Now you tell me that the real world is a realm of spectres and jack o ' lanterns . In which case - have I wasted my brief span here , Doctor ? Has it all been for nothing ?」
narration:INT . SNEED 'S KITCHEN
 Gwyneth is lighting another gas lamp when Rose comes in and starts washing up .
GWYNETH:「Please , Miss ! You should n't be helping ! It 's not right !」
ROSE:「Do n't be daft . Sneed works you to death . ( Hands her the cloth to dry up ) . How much do you get paid ?」
GWYNETH:「Eight pound a year , miss .」
ROSE:「That much ?」
GWYNETH:「I know . I would 've been happy with six .」
narration:Rose looks dumbfounded .
ROSE:「So , did you go to school or what ?」

GWYNETH:「Of course I did . What do you think I am ? An urchin ? I went every Sunday . Nice and proper .」
ROSE:「What , once a week ?」
GWYNETH:「We did sums and everything . To be honest , I hated every second .」
ROSE:「Me too .」
narration:They both laugh .
GWYNETH ( as if this is completely outrageous ):「Do n't tell anyone , but one week , I did n't go and ran on the heath all on my own !」
ROSE:「I did plenty of that . I used to go down the shops with my mate Shareen . And we used to go and look at boys !」
narration:Gwyneth stops laughing at once and looks scandalized .
GWYNETH:「Well , I do n't know much about that , miss .」
narration:She turns back to the washing up .
ROSE:「Come on , times have n't changed that much ! I bet you 've done the same .」
GWYNETH:「I do n't think so , miss .」
ROSE:「Gwyneth ! You can tell me ! Bet you 've got your eye on someone .」
GWYNETH:「I suppose . There is one lad ...」
narration:Rose looks extremely chuffed .
GWYNETH (  ):「The butcher 's boy . He comes by every Tuesday . Such a lovely smile on him !」
ROSE:「Oh , I like a nice smile . Good smile , nice bum .」
narration:Again , Gwyneth looks shocked .
GWYNETH:「Well , I have never heard the like !」
narration:Rose just laughs . Then , Gwyneth laughs too .
ROSE:「Ask him out ! Give him a cup of tea or something , that 's a start .」
GWYNETH:「I swear , it is the strangest thing , miss . You 've got all the clothes and the breeding but you talk like some sort of wild thing !」
ROSE ( shrugs ):「Maybe I am . Maybe that 's a good thing . You need a bit more in your life than Mr Sneed .」
GWYNETH:「Ah , now that 's not fair . He 's not so bad , old Sneed . He was very kind to me to take me in . Because I lost my mum and dad to the flu when I was twelve .」
ROSE:「Oh , I 'm sorry .」
GWYNETH:「Thank you , miss . But I 'll be with them again , one day . Sitting with them in paradise . I should be so blessed . They 're waiting for me . Maybe your dad 's up there waiting for you too , miss .」
ROSE:「Maybe . ( Nods , then realises ) . Um , who told you he was dead ?」
narration:Gwyneth realises what she has said and turns quickly back to the washing up .
GWYNETH ( lightly ):「I do n't know , must 've been the Doctor .」
ROSE:「My father died years back .」

GWYNETH:「You 've been thinking about him lately , more than ever .」
ROSE:「I s'pose so ... how do you know all this ?」
GWYNETH:「Mr. Sneed says I think too much . I 'm all alone down here . I bet you 've got dozens of servants , have n't you miss .」
narration:They laugh .
ROSE:「No , no servants where I 'm from .」
GWYNETH:「And you 've come such a long way .」
ROSE:「What makes you think so ?」
GWYNETH:「You 're from London . I 've seen London in drawings , but never like that . ( Stares at Rose intently ) . All those people rushing about . Half naked , for shame . And the noise ... and the metal boxes racing past ... and the birds in the sky ... they 're metal as well . Metal birds with people in them . People flying . And you , you 've flown so far , further than anyone ! The things you 've seen ... the darkness ... the big bad wolf ... ( Staggers backwards , afraid ) . I 'm sorry ! I 'm sorry , miss !」
ROSE:「S'alright ...」
GWYNETH:「I ca n't help it , ever since I was a little girl . My mum said I had the sight . She told me to hide it !」
Doctor Who:「But it 's getting stronger . More powerful , is that right ?」

narration:Rose and Gwyneth both jump as they turn to see the Doctor standing in the doorway .
GWYNETH:「All the time , sir . Every night . Voices in my head .」
Doctor Who:「You grew up on top of the rift . You 're part of it . You 're the key .」
GWYNETH:「I 've tried to make sense of it , sir . Consulted with spiritualists , table wrappers , all sorts .」
Doctor Who:「Well , that should help . You can show us what to do .」
GWYNETH:「What to do where , sir ?」
Doctor Who:「We 're going to have a seance .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 INT . SNEED 'S PARLOUR
 They are all sat around a table .
GWYNETH:「This is how Madam Mortlock summons those from the Land of Mists . Down in Mid Town . Come . We must all join hands .」
DICKENS:「I ca n't take part in this .」
narration:He gets up .
Doctor Who:「Humbug ? Come on , open mind .」

DICKENS:「This is precisely the sort of cheap mummery I try to un - mask . Seances ? Nothing but luminous tambourines and a squeeze box concealed between the knees . This girl knows nothing .」
Doctor Who:「Now , do n't antagonize her . I love a happy medium .」
ROSE:「I ca n't believe you just said that .」
THE DOCTOR ( to Dickens ):「Come on , we might need you .」
narration:Dickens sits down again .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Good man . Now , Gwyneth . Reach out .」
GWYNETH:「Speak to us . Are you there ? Spirits ?」
narration:Dickens rolls his eyes .
GWYNETH (  ):「Come . Speak to us that we may relieve your burden .」
narration:She raises her eyes to the ceiling . A murmuring fills the room .
ROSE:「Can you hear that ?」
DICKENS:「Nothing can happen . This is sheer folly .」
ROSE:「Look at her .」
GWYNETH:「I feel them . I feel them !」
narration:The gas creatures begin to fill the room .
ROSE:「What 're they saying ?」

Doctor Who:「They ca n't get through the rift . Gwyneth , it 's not controlling you , you 're controlling it . Now look deep . Allow them through .」
GWYNETH:「I ca n't !」
Doctor Who:「Yes you can . Just believe it . I have faith in you , Gwyneth . Make the link .」
narration:Gwyneth looks almost pained . Then suddenly , she lowers her head and opens her eyes .
GWYNETH:「Yes .」
narration:Three gaseous figures appear behind her - the Gelth . Dickens ' mouth drops open .
SNEED:「Great God . Sprits from the other side !」
Doctor Who:「The other side of the universe .」
GELTH:「Pity us . Pity the Gelth . There is so little time , help us .」
Doctor Who:「What do you want us to do ?」
GELTH:「The rift . Take the girl to the rift . Make the bridge .」
Doctor Who:「What for ?」
GELTH:「We are so very few . The last of our kind . We face extinction .」
Doctor Who:「Why , what happened ?」
GELTH:「Once we had a physical form like you . But then the war came .」

DICKENS:「War ? What war ?」
GELTH:「The Time War .」
narration:The Doctor and Rose glance at each other .
GELTH (  ):「The whole universe convulsed . The Time War raged invisible to smaller species but devastating to higher forms . Our bodies wasted away . We 're trapped in this gaseous state .」
Doctor Who:「So that 's why you need the corpses .」
GELTH:「We want to stand tall . To feel the sunlight . To live again . We need a physical form , and your dead are abandoned . They 're going to waste , give them to us !」
ROSE:「But we ca n't !」
Doctor Who:「Why not ?」
ROSE:「It 's not ... I mean , it 's not ...」
Doctor Who:「Not decent ? Not polite ? It could save their lives .」
narration:They stare at each other for a moment .
GELTH:「Open the rift . Let the Gelth through . We 're dying . Help us . Pity the Gelth !」
narration:They disappear and Gwyneth collapses forwards onto the table . Rose gets up immediately and goes to her .
ROSE:「Gwyneth !」
DICKENS:「All true .」

ROSE ( to Gwyneth ):「Are you okay ?」
DICKENS:「It 's all true .」
narration:The Doctor is silent .
 INT . SNEED 'S PARLOUR
 Rose is mopping Gwyneth 's forehead as she lies asleep on a couch . Slowly , her eyes open . She fidgets .
ROSE:「It 's alright . You just sleep .」
GWYNETH:「But my angels , miss . They came , did n't they ? They need me ?」
narration:The Doctor is leaning on a wall just behind Rose .
Doctor Who:「They do need you , Gwyneth . You 're they 're only chance of survival .」
ROSE ( turns angrily ):「I 've told you , leave her alone . She 's exhausted and she 's not fighting your battles .」
narration:The Doctor leans his head back and sighs . Rose turns back to Gwyneth and offers her a drink .
ROSE:「Drink this .」
SNEED:「Well , what did you say , Doctor ? Explain it again . What are they ?」
Doctor Who:「Aliens .」
SNEED:「Like ... foreigners , you mean ?」
Doctor Who:「Pretty foreign , yeah . From up there .」
narration:He points skywards .

SNEED:「Brecon ?」
Doctor Who:「Close . They 've been trying to get through from Brecon to Cardiff but the road 's blocked . Only a few can get through and even then they 're weak . They can only test drive the bodies for so long , then they have to revert to gas and hide in the pipes .」
DICKENS:「Which is why they need the girl .」
ROSE:「They 're not having her .」
Doctor Who:「But she can help . Living on the rift , she 's become part of it , she can open it up , make a bridge and let them through .」
DICKENS:「Incredible . Ghosts that are not ghosts but beings from another world who can only exist in our world by inhabiting cadavers .」
Doctor Who:「Good system . It might work .」
narration:Rose gets up and walks over to the Doctor .
ROSE:「You ca n't let them run around inside dead people !」
Doctor Who:「Why not ? It 's like recycling .」
ROSE:「Seriously though , you ca n't .」
Doctor Who:「Seriously though , I can .」
ROSE:「It 's just ... wrong ! Those bodies were living people ! We should respect them even in death !」

Doctor Who:「Do you carry a donor card ?」
ROSE:「That 's different , that 's ...」
Doctor Who:「It is different , yeah . It 's a different morality . Get used to it or go home . ( Rose is silent . He speaks in softer tones - ) . You heard what they said , time 's short . I ca n't worry about a few corpses when the last of the Gelth could be dying .」
ROSE:「I do n't care , they 're not using her .」
GWYNETH:「Do n't I get a say , miss ?」
narration:Both Rose and the Doctor turn to look at her .
ROSE:「Look . You do n't understand what 's going on .」
GWYNETH:「You would say that miss . Because that 's very clear inside your head , that you think I 'm stupid .」
ROSE:「That 's not fair !」
GWYNETH:「It 's true , though . Things might be very different where you 're from . But here and now , I know my own mind . And the angels need me . Doctor , what do I have to do ?」
Doctor Who:「You do n't have to do anything .」

GWYNETH:「They 've been singing to me since I was a child . Sent by my mum on a holy mission . So tell me .」
narration:The Doctor smiles at her .
Doctor Who:「We need to find the rift . ( Approaches Sneed and Dickens ) . This house is on a weak spot , so there must be a spot that 's weaker than any other . Mr. Sneed . What 's the weakest part of this house ? The place where most of the ghosts have been seen ?」
SNEED:「That would be the Morgue .」
ROSE ( still disgruntled ):「No chance you were gon na say " gazebo " , was there ?」
narration:Everyone looks at her .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , MORGUE
 The key turns in the Morgue , and they all troupe in , lead by the Doctor .
Doctor Who:「Talk about Bleak House .」
ROSE:「The thing is , Doctor , the Gelth do n't succeed . 'Cause I know they do n't . I know for a fact there were n't corpses walking around in 1869 .」
Doctor Who:「Time 's in flux . It 's changing every second . Your cozy little world could be rewritten like that . ( Clicks his fingers ) . Nothing is safe . Remember that . Nothing .」

DICKENS:「Doctor , I think the room is getting colder .」
ROSE:「Here they come .」
narration:The Gelth flood into the room . Their leader positions itself in an archway . It has the voice of a child .
GELTH:「You have come to help ! Praise the Doctor ! Praise him !」
ROSE:「Promise you wo n't hurt her !」
GELTH:「Hurry ! Please . So little time . Pity the Gelth .」
Doctor Who:「I 'll take you somewhere else after the transfer . Somewhere you can build proper bodies . This is n't a permanent solution , alright ?」
GWYNETH:「My angels . I can help them live .」
Doctor Who:「Okay , where 's the weak point ?」
GELTH:「Here , beneath the arch .」
narration:Gwyneth positions herself beneath the arch .
GWYNETH:「Beneath the arch .」
narration:Rose rushes to her .
ROSE:「You do n't have to do this .」
narration:Gwyneth places her hands on Rose 's cheeks .
GWYNETH:「My angels .」
narration:Rose staggers backwards .
GELTH:「Establish the bridge , reach out of the void , let us through !」

GWYNETH:「Yes . I can see you ! I can see you ! Come !」
GELTH:「Bridgehead establishing .」
GWYNETH:「Come ! Come to me ! Come to this world , poor lost souls !」
GELTH:「It is begun ! The bridge is made !」
narration:Gwyneth 's mouth opens and the Gelth pour out of it .
GELTH (  ):「She has given herself to the Gelth !」
DICKENS:「There 's rather a lot of them , eh ?」
GELTH:「The bridge is open . We descend .」
narration:Suddenly , the figure becomes demonic . The gas turns from blue to red .
GELTH (  ):「The Gelth will come through in force .」
DICKENS:「You said that you were few in number !」
GELTH:「A few billion . And all of us in need of corpses .」
narration:The bodies rise .
SNEED:「Gwyneth ... stop this ! Listen to your master ! This has gone far enough . Stop dabbling , child , leave these things alone . I beg of you ...」
ROSE:「Mr. Sneed ! Get back !」
narration:A corpse grabs Sneed from behind and holds him still while another of the Gelth fills his body through his mouth . The Doctor and Rose leap back . Mr Sneed looks up at them through blank , dead eyes .
Doctor Who:「I think it 's gone a little bit wrong .」

SNEED:「I have joined the legions of the Gelth . Come . March with us .」
DICKENS:「No !」
narration:The corpses advance on the Doctor and Rose .
GELTH:「We need bodies . All of you . Dead . The human race . Dead .」
narration:They are backing the Doctor and Rose against a dungeon door .
Doctor Who:「Gwyneth , stop them ! Send them back ! Now !」
GELTH:「Three more bodies . Make them vessels for the Gelth .」
DICKENS:「I ... I ca n't ! I 'm sorry !」
narration:The Doctor looks behind him , spots the dungeon door , pushes Rose in there with him and slams it shut again so they are both locked in there .
DICKENS (  ):「It 's too much for me ! I 'm so ...」
narration:He jumps and runs from the Morgue as one of the Gelth screeches and swoops at him . The corpses are clambering to get in the dungeon .
GELTH:「Give yourself to glory . Sacrifice your lives for the Gelth .」
Doctor Who:「I trusted you . I pitied you !」
GELTH:「We do n't want your pity ! We want this world and all its flesh .」

narration:They are rattling the door .
Doctor Who:「Not while I 'm alive .」
GELTH:「Then live no more .」
narration:INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
 Dickens has run from the Morgue and rests panting against the door . The gaseous creatures swirl around the knocker , making it look exactly like the knocker from his story " A Christmas Carol " , and he runs again .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , MORGUE
 The Doctor and Rose are flattened against the dungeon wall while the Gelth are rattling the door .
ROSE:「But I ca n't die . ( Looks at the Doctor for reassurance ) . Tell me I ca n't ! I have n't even been born yet , it 's impossible for me to die ! Is n't it ? !」
Doctor Who:「I 'm sorry .」
narration:EXT . SNEED AND COMPANY , STREET
 Dickens has run from the house altogether . One of the Gelth has followed him .
GELTH:「Failing ! Atmosphere hostile !」
narration:The figure dives into a gas lamp .
DICKENS ( realising ):「Gas ... Gas !」
narration:INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , MORGUE

ROSE:「But it 's 1869 , how can I die now ?」
Doctor Who:「Time is n't a straight line . It can twist into any shape . You can be born in the 20th century and die in the 19th and it 's all my fault . I brought you here .」
ROSE:「It 's not your fault . I wanted to come .」
Doctor Who:「What about me ? I saw the fall of Troy ! World War Five ! I pushed boxes at the Boston Tea Party , now I 'm going to die in a dungeon ! ( Horrified ) . In Cardiff !」
ROSE:「It 's not just dying . We 'll become one of them .」
narration:INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
 Dickens rushes back into the house and begins to turn all the flames off the gas lamps , so that the gas is released into the air . Wheezing slightly , he covers his nose and mouth with a handkerchief .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , MORGUE
ROSE:「We 'll go down fighting , yeah ?」
Doctor Who:「Yeah .」
ROSE:「Together ?」
Doctor Who:「Yeah !」
narration:They link hands .
Doctor Who:「I 'm so glad I met you .」

narration:Rose looks up at him , surprised .
ROSE:「Me too .」
narration:They smile at each other . At that moment , Dickens rushes into the room .
DICKENS:「Doctor ! Turn off the flame , turn up the gas ! Now fill the room , all of it , now !」
Doctor Who:「What 're you doing ?」
DICKENS:「Turn it all on ! Gas the place !」
narration:He turns another one on .
Doctor Who:「Brilliant . Gas !」
ROSE:「What , so we choke to death instead ?」
DICKENS:「Am I correct , Doctor ? These creatures are gaseous !」
Doctor Who:「Fill the room with gas , it 'll draw them out of the host . Suck them into the air like poison from a wound !」
narration:The corpses all decide to turn on Dickens instead .
DICKENS:「I hope ... oh , Lord . I hope that this theory will be validated soon .」
narration:The corpses advance dangerously on him .
DICKENS (  ):「If not immediately .」
Doctor Who:「Plenty more !」
narration:He smashes a gas canister against the wall and all the creatures are sucked from the bodies with a scream .
DICKENS:「It 's working .」

narration:The Doctor and Rose are free to come out of the dungeon .
Doctor Who:「Gwyneth ! Send them back ! They lied , they 're not angels .」
GWYNETH ( simply ):「Liars .」
Doctor Who:「Look at me . If your mother and father could look down and see this , they 'd tell you the same . They 'd give you the strength . Now send them back !」
ROSE ( choked ):「Ca n't breathe .」
Doctor Who:「Charles , get her out .」
narration:Dickens grabs Rose 's arm , but she shakes him off .
ROSE:「I 'm not leaving her !」
GWYNETH:「They 're too strong .」
Doctor Who:「Remember that world you saw ? Rose 's world ? All those people , non of it will exist unless you send them back through the rift .」
GWYNETH ( firmly ):「I ca n't send them back . But I can hold them . Hold them in this place , hold them here . Get out .」
narration:Her hand goes to her apron pocket and she takes out a box of matches . Rose rushes forwards .
ROSE:「You ca n't !」
GWYNETH:「Leave this place !」
narration:The Doctor grabs Rose 's shoulders .

Doctor Who:「Rose , get out , go now , I wo n't leave her while she 's still in danger , now go !」
narration:Dickens and Rose leave the Morgue . The Doctor holds his hand out for the matches .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Now give that to me .」
narration:Gwyneth does not respond .
 INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , HALLWAY
 Dickens leads Rose back through the dark house , filled with gas .
DICKENS:「This way !」
narration:INT . SNEED AND COMPANY , MORGUE
 The Doctor places his hand on Gwyneth 's neck , feeling for a pulse . His face falls .
Doctor Who:「I 'm sorry . ( Places a kiss on her forehead ) . Thank you .」
narration:He runs from the Morgue . Gwyneth takes a match out of the box and waits for a few moments , to be sure the Doctor is safely out of the house . Then she strikes the match .
 EXT . SNEED AND COMPANY , STREET
 The whole house goes up in flames , the Doctor diving out of the doorway only just in time to join Rose and Dickens . Rose fixes him with a look that plainly asks why Gwyneth is not with him . The Doctor looks back at her .
ROSE:「She did n't make it .」

Doctor Who:「I 'm sorry . She closed the rift .」
DICKENS:「At such a cost . The poor child .」
narration:Rose has not looked away from the Doctor .
Doctor Who:「I did try , Rose , but Gwyneth was already dead . She had been for at least five minutes .」
ROSE:「What do you mean ?」
Doctor Who:「I think she was dead from the minute she stood in that arch .」
ROSE:「But ... she ca n't have , she spoke to us . She helped us - she saved us . How could she have done that ?」
DICKENS:「There are more things in Heaven and Earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy . Even for you , Doctor .」
ROSE:「She saved the world . A servant girl . No one will ever know .」
narration:All three of them gaze at the burning house .
 EXT . ALLEYWAY
 The Doctor , Rose and Dickens have arrived back at the TARDIS .
Doctor Who:「Right then , Charlie - boy , I 've just got to go into my um ... shed . Wo n't be long !」
narration:He fits the key in the lock .
ROSE ( to Dickens ):「What 're you going to do now ?」

DICKENS:「I shall take the mail coach back to London . Quite literally post - haste . This is no time for me to be on my own . I shall spend Christmas with my family and make amends to them . After all I 've learned tonight , there can be nothing more vital .」
Doctor Who:「You 've cheered up !」
DICKENS ( enthusiastically ):「Exceedingly ! This morning , I thought I knew everything in the world and now I know I 've just started ! All these huge and wonderful notions , Doctor ! I 'm inspired . I must write about them !」
ROSE:「Do you think that 's wise ?」
DICKENS:「I shall be subtle at first . The Mystery of Edwin Drood still lacks an ending . Perhaps the killer was not the boy 's uncle . Perhaps he was not of this earth . The Mystery of Edwin Drood and the Blue Elementals . I can spread the word ! Tell the truth !」
Doctor Who:「Good luck with it . Nice to meet you . ( Shakes Dickens ' hand ) . Fantastic .」
narration:He turns back to the TARDIS door .
ROSE:「Bye , then . And , thanks .」
narration:She kisses him on the cheek . Dickens looks taken - aback .

DICKENS:「Oh , my dear , how modern . Thank you , but , I do n't understand , in what way is this goodbye ? Where are you going ?」
Doctor Who:「You 'll see . In the shed .」
narration:He opens the door of the TARDIS .
DICKENS:「Oh , my soul . Doctor , it 's one riddle after another with you . But after all these revelations , there 's one mystery you still have n't explained . Answer me this」
narration:A pause .
Doctor Who:「Just a friend . Passing through .」
DICKENS:「But you have such knowledge of future times . I do n't wish to impose on you , but I must ask you . My books . Doctor , do they last ?」
Doctor Who:「Oh , yes !」
DICKENS:「For how long ?」
Doctor Who:「Forever !」
narration:Dickens tries to look pleased and modest at the same time .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Right . Shed . Come on , Rose ...」
narration:They both turn to the door .
DICKENS:「In , in the box ? Both of you ?」
Doctor Who:「Down boy . See ya !」

narration:The Doctor and Rose enter the TARDIS and shut the door after them .
 INT . TARDIS
ROSE:「Does n't that change history if he writes about blue ghosts ?」
Doctor Who:「In a weeks time it 's 1870 , and that 's the year he dies . Sorry . He 'll never get to tell his story .」
narration:They both look at the screen where they can see Dickens is still standing outside .
ROSE:「Oh , no ! He was so nice .」
Doctor Who:「But in your time , he was already dead ! We 've brought him back to life ! He 's more alive now than he 's ever been , old Charlie - boy . Let 's give him one last surprise .」

narration:EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 The TARDIS materializes . Both Rose and the Doctor step out . The Doctor leans against the door and folds his arms .
ROSE:「How long have I been gone ?」
Doctor Who:「About 12 hours .」
narration:They laugh .
ROSE:「Oooh ! Right , I wo n't be long , I 'm just gon na see my mum .」
Doctor Who:「What 're you going to tell her ?」
ROSE:「I do n't know ! I 've been to the year 5 billion ... and only been gone , what , 12 hours ?」
narration:The Doctor gives something between a laugh and a snort .
ROSE (  ):「No , I 'll just tell her I 've spent the night at Shareens . See you later ! ( Walks off , turns back ) . Oh , do n't you disappear .」

narration:The Doctor gives her a look to say ' as if I would ' and she runs off in the direction of the flats . He settles himself against the TARDIS to wait for her .
 INT . STAIRWELL
 Rose runs up the stairs to her flat , grinning .
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 The Doctor wanders around with his arms folded outside and kicks an empty bottle across the yard . He spots a poster taped to a lamppost . He walks over to it and reads the writing " Can You Help ? " and sees a photograph of Rose .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , LIVING ROOM
 Rose opens the door to her flat .
ROSE:「I 'm back ! It was Shareen . She was all upset again . Are you in ?」
narration:Her mum walks out of the kitchen holding a cup of tea .
ROSE (  ):「So , what 's been going on ? How 've you been ?」
narration:Jackie looks as though she has seen a ghost .
ROSE (  ):「What ? What 's that face for ? It 's not the first time I 've stayed out all night .」
narration:Jackie drops the cup of tea and it smashes on the floor .
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 Outside , the Doctor gets the gist of the poster and runs to the flats .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , LIVING ROOM
JACKIE:「It 's you .」
ROSE:「Of course it 's me !」
JACKIE ( shaken , teary ):「Oh , my God . It 's you . Oh my God .」
narration:She throws her arms around Rose , who looks alarmed . Then , over her sobbing mother 's shoulder , she notices several variations of the same " Where is Rose ? " poster . At that moment , the Doctor comes crashing in .
 THE DOCTOR It 's not 12 hours , it 's er ... 12 months . You 've been gone a whole year .
 He laughs apologetically while Rose and Jackie both look at him , stunned .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Sorry .」
narration:Jackie looks back at Rose , stroking her hair .
 OPENING CREDITS
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 A small boy is spraying the words " Bad Wolf " onto the side of the TARDIS . He then picks up his bike and rides off .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , LIVING ROOM
JACKIE ( furious ):「The hours I 've sat here . Days and weeks and months all on my own . I thought you were dead . And where were you ? Travelling . What the hell does that mean ? Travelling ? That 's no sort of answer .」
narration:Rose is sitting in an armchair while Jackie is giving her all she 's got . A policeman is sitting in the other armchair .
JACKIE (  ) ( to the PC ):「You ask her . She wo n't tell me ! That 's all she says . Travelling .」
ROSE:「That 's what I was doing .」

JACKIE ( gesturing furiously ):「When your passport 's still in the drawer ? It 's just one lie after another !」
ROSE:「I meant to phone , I really did , I just ... I forgot .」
JACKIE:「What , for a year ? You forgot for a year ? And I am left sitting here ? I just do n't believe you . Why wo n't you tell me where you 've been ?」
Doctor Who:「Actually , it 's my fault . I sort of er , employed Rose as my companion .」
POLICEMAN:「When you say " companion " , is this a sexual relationship ?」
THE DOCTOR / ROSE:「No !」
JACKIE ( advancing dangerously on the Doctor ):「Then what is it ? Because you , you waltz in here all charms and smiles , and the next thing I know , she vanishes off the face of the earth ! How old are you then ? 40 ? 45 ? What , you find her on the Internet ? Did you go online and pretend you 're a doctor ?」
Doctor Who:「I AM a Doctor !」
JACKIE:「Prove it ! Stitch this , mate .」

narration:She slaps him hard around the face . The Doctor groans loudly while Rose rolls her eyes .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , KITCHEN
 Jackie and Rose are hugging .
JACKIE:「Did you think about me at all ?」
narration:They are both crying . Rose stands back slightly .
ROSE:「I did ! All the time ! But ...」
JACKIE:「One phone call . Just to know that you were alive !」
ROSE:「I 'm sorry . I really am .」
JACKIE:「Do you know what terrifies me , is that you still ca n't say . What happened to you , Rose ? What could be so bad that you ca n't tell me , sweetheart ? Where were you ?」
narration:Rose can not answer her .
 EXT . ROOF
 Rose is sitting on a wall and the Doctor is leaning against it .
ROSE:「I ca n't tell her . I ca n't even begin ... she 's never gon na forgive me . And I missed a year ? Was it good ?」
Doctor Who:「Middling .」
ROSE:「You 're so useless .」
Doctor Who:「Well , if it 's this much trouble , are you gon na stay here now ?」

ROSE:「I dunno . I ca n't do that to her again , though .」
Doctor Who:「Well , she 's not coming with us .」
narration:Rose bursts out laughing and the Doctor joins in .
ROSE:「No chance .」
Doctor Who:「I do n't do families .」
ROSE:「She slapped you !」
Doctor Who:「900 years of time and space , and I 've never been slapped by someone 's mother .」
ROSE:「Your face .」
Doctor Who:「It hurt !」
ROSE:「You 're so gay !」
narration:The Doctor rubs his cheek , offended .
ROSE:「When you say 900 years ...」
Doctor Who:「That 's my age .」
ROSE:「You 're nine hundred years old .」
Doctor Who:「Yeah .」
ROSE:「My mum was right . That is one hell of an age gap . ( Jumps off the wall ) . Every conversation with you just goes mental . There 's no one else I can talk to . I 've seen all that stuff up there , the size of it , and I ca n't say a word . Aliens and spaceships and things , and I 'm the only person on planet earth who knows they exist .」

narration:Right on cue , a spacecraft narrowly misses their heads as it falls from the sky and heads for for Central London . It smashes into Big Ben , then lands with a splash in the Thames . The Doctor and Rose stand up with their mouths open .
ROSE (  ):「Oh , that 's just not fair .」
narration:The Doctor laughs gleefully , grabs her hand , and pulls her off in the direction of the action .
 EXT . STREET
 It is complete mayhem on the streets . The Doctor and Rose arrive on the scene .
Doctor Who:「It 's blocked off .」
ROSE:「We 're miles from the centre . The scene must be grid locked . The whole of London must be closing down .」
Doctor Who:「I know , I ca n't BELIEVE I 'm here to see this ! This is fantastic !」
ROSE:「Did you know this was going to happen ?」
Doctor Who:「Nope !」
ROSE:「Do you recognize the ship ?」
Doctor Who:「Nope !」
ROSE:「Do you know why it crashed ?」
Doctor Who:「Nope !」
ROSE:「Oh , I 'm so glad I 've got you .」

Doctor Who:「I bet you are ! This is what I travel for , Rose ! To see history happening right in front of us .」
ROSE:「Well , let 's go and see it ! Never mind the traffic , we 've got the TARDIS !」
Doctor Who:「Better not . They 've already got one spaceship in the middle of London , do n't want to shove another one on top .」
ROSE:「Yeah , but yours looks like a big blue box . No one 's going to notice .」
Doctor Who:「You 'll be surprised , an emergency like this , there 'll be all kinds of people watching . Trust me , the TARDIS stays where it is .」
narration:Rose looks distinctly disgruntled .
ROSE:「So , history 's happening and we 're stuck here .」
Doctor Who:「Yes , we are .」
ROSE:「We could always do what everybody else does .」
narration:The Doctor looks at her questioningly .
ROSE (  ):「We could watch it on TV .」
narration:The Doctor looks as though this is a completely new idea to him .
 INT . TYLERS ' FLAT , LIVING ROOM

NEWS READER:「Big Ben destroyed as a UFO crash lands in Central London . Police reinforcements are drafted in from across the country to control wide - spread panic , looting and civil disturbance . A state of national emergency has been declared . Tom Hitchinson is at the scene .」
narration:The Doctor and Rose are watching the TV intently .
REPORTER:「The police urge the public not to panic . There 's a help line number on screen right now if you 're worried about friends or family .」
narration:They the channel over to an American news channel .
NEWS READER:「The military are on the lookout for more spaceships . Until then , all flights in North American air space have been grounded .」
narration:They turn it back to News 24 .
REPORTER:「The army are sending divers into the wreck of the spaceship . No one knows what they 're going to find .」
narration:Back to the American channel .
NEWS READER:「The President will address the nation live from the White House . But the Secretary General has asked that people watch the skies .」
narration:Jackie comes in to give Rose a cup of tea .
JACKIE:「I 've got no choice ! Either I make him welcome , or I run the risk of never seeing you again !」
narration:Both Jackie and her friend Marianna babble on angrily .
Doctor Who:「Oi ! I 'm trying to listen !」

NEWS READER:「... his current whereabouts . News is just coming in , we can go to Tom at the embankments .」
REPORTER:「They 've found a body .」
narration:The Doctor raises his eyebrows .
REPORTER (  ):「It 's unconfirmed but I 'm being told a body has been found in the wreckage . A body of non - terrestrial origins . It 's being brought ashore .」
narration:Jackie enters the room giving a bottle of wine to a couple of people .
JACKIE:「Oh , guess who asked me out , Billy Crewe .」
narration:The Doctor shakes his head .
NEWS READER:「Unconfirmed reports say that the body is of extra - terrestrial origin . An extraordinary event unfolding here live here in Central London . The body is being transferred to a secure unit mortuary . The whereabouts is yet unknown .」
narration:The TV changes channels a few times and comes to rest on Blue Peter .
BLUE PETER PRESENTER:「And when you 've stuck your things on , you can cover the whole lot ...」
narration:The Doctor tries to wrestle the TV remote off a toddler on his lap .
BLUE PETER PRESENTER:「Ooo , look at that . Then , ice it , any colour you want ... Here 's one I made a little bit earlier , look at that . Your very own spaceship ready to eat . And there 's something a little extra special ...」
narration:The Doctor changes the channel back to News 24 .
NEWS READER:「... in hospital .」
REPORTER:「We still do n't know whether it 's alive or dead . Whitehall is denying everything . But the body has been brought here , Albian Hospital , the roads closed off - it 's the closest to the river .」
narration:The little boy hops off the Doctors lap and stands in front of the TV screen . The Doctor points violently sideways .
Doctor Who:「Go on !」

narration:The toddler wanders off .
REPORTER:「I 'm being told that ... General Asquith is now entering the hospital . The building 's evacuated . The patients have been moved out onto the streets . The police still wo n't confirm the presence of an alien body . Contained inside those walls ...」
narration:INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , MORTUARY
 A group of soldiers enter the mortuary inside the hospital . General Asquith approaches the table where the alien lies covered with a cloth .
ASQUITH:「Let 's have a look then .」
narration:Dr Sato pulls back the cloth .
ASQUITH (  ):「Good God . That 's real ? It 's not a hoax or a dummy , or a ... ?」
narration:Dr Sato shakes her head .
DR SATO:「I 've x - rayed the skull . It 's wired up inside like nothing I 've ever seen before . No one could make this up .」
ASQUITH:「We 've got experts being flown in . Until they arrive ... get that out of sight .」
narration:She nods and covers the alien again .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , MORTUARY
 Two people shut the door of a mortuary shelf .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , CORRIDOR
 Dr Sato runs after Asquith as he makes to leave .
DR SATO:「Excuse me , sir !」
narration:The captain stops and turns to face her .
DR SATO (  ):「I know it 's a state of emergency and there 's a lot of rumour flying around , but is it true , what they 're saying ? About the Prime Minister ?」
narration:The captain does not answer her . He leaves without another word , followed by soldiers . She stares after them then hurries in the opposite direction .
 EXT . DOWNING STREET
REPORTER:「Mystery still surrounds there whereabouts of the prime minister . He 's not been seen since the emergency began . The opposition are criticizing his lack of leadership . Hold on ...」
narration:A man gets out of a car and enters 10 Downing Street .
REPORTER (  ):「Oh , that 's Joseph Green , MP for Hartley Dale . He 's chairman of the parliamentary commission on the monitoring of sugar standards in exported confectionary . With respect , hardly the most important person right now .」
narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET RECEPTION
 When Joseph Green enters 10 Downing Street , his hand is shaken by the Junior Secretary .
INDRA:「Indra Ganesh . Junior secretary . I 'll be your liaison .」
JOSEPH:「Where the hell is he ?」
INDRA:「If we could talk in private , sir . Follow me , upstairs .」
narration:A woman approaches them from behind .
HARRIET:「Excuse me ! Harriet Jones . MP for Flydale North .」
INDRA:「I 'm sorry , can it wait ?」
HARRIET:「But I did have an appointment at 3」

INDRA:「Yes . And a spaceship crashed in the middle of London . I think the schedule might have changed .」
narration:The two men turn away from her and make their way up the stairs .
INDRA:「You 've heard about the alien body , sir ?」
JOSEPH:「Never mind that , where is he ? Where 's the Prime Minister ?」
INDRA:「No one knows , sir . He 's disappeared . I have to inform you with the city grid locked and the cabinet stranded that makes you acting Prime Minister . With immediate effect .」
JOSEPH:「Oh , Lord . Oh , hold on/ ... ( Farts loudly ) . Pardon me ... nervous stomach . Anyway ...」
narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM CORRIDOR
 They run up the stairs . Indra indicates a fat blonde woman .
INDRA:「Margaret Blaine . She 's with MI5 .」
MARGARET:「There 's no more information , sir . I personally escorted the Prime Minister from the cabinet room to his car , this is Oliver Charles , transport liaison .」
OLIVER:「The car 's disappeared . There 's no record of it , sir - it literally vanished .」
JOSEPH:「Right , er , inside , tell me everything .」
narration:He ushers them into the cabinet room .
INDRA:「Er , sir ?」
narration:Joseph turns around and Indra holds a red case out to him .
INDRA (  ):「The emergency protocols . Detailing the actions to be taken by the government of Great Britain in the event of an alien incursion .」
JOSEPH:「Right ! Good ! ( Farts ) . Blimey !」
narration:Indra looks slightly worried .
JOSEPH (  ):「Pardon me . ( Takes the case ) . Get to work , eh ?」
narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 He enters the room after Margaret and Oliver and slams the case down on the long table . He then looks across at them and starts laughing . A few seconds later they join in . Soon , they are all in hysterics .
 EXT . TYLER 'S FLAT
 It is dark . The Doctor slips outside the back door of Rose 's flat . Rose emerges after him .
ROSE:「And where do you think you 're going ?」
Doctor Who:「Nowhere ! It 's just a bit human in there for me . History just happened and they 're talking about where you can buy dodgy top up cards for half price . I 'm off on a wander , that 's all .」

ROSE:「Right . There 's a spaceship on the Thames and you 're just " wandering " .」
Doctor Who:「Nothing to do with me ! It 's not an invasion ! That was a genuine crash landing . Angle of descent , colour of smoke , everything ! It 's perfect !」
ROSE:「So ...」
Doctor Who:「So maybe this is it ! First contact ! The day mankind officially comes into contact with an alien race . I 'm not interfering because you 've GOT to handle this on your own . That 's when the human race finally grows up . Just this morning you were all tiny and small and made of clay ! Now you can expand !」
narration:He laughs in delight . Rose smiles .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「You do n't need me . Go and celebrate history . Spend some time with your mum .」
narration:He walks away .
ROSE:「Promise you wo n't disappear ?」
narration:The Doctor stops and turns around again . He feels his jacket pockets .
Doctor Who:「Tell you what , TARDIS key . ( Hands it to her ) . About time you had one . ( Grins ) . See you later !」

narration:He leaves . Rose looks down at the key in her hand , closes her fist around it and walks back to the flat door , looking distinctly chuffed .
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 The Doctor leaves the block of flats . There is a raucous party on the third floor with a banner hanging over the balcony saying " THE ALIENS HAVE LANDED " . A banner hanging from another window says " WELCOME TO OUR WORLD " . A woman spots the Doctor and calls down to him .
WOMAN:「Hey , gorgeous ! Come back and join the party !」
narration:Mickey emerges onto another balcony higher up . He picks up a trainer , smells it , and makes a face of disgust . He watches the Doctor look at a sign in a shop window saying " HELLO ET " and then does a double take as the Doctor walks up to the TARDIS taking a bunch of keys out of his pocket .
MICKEY:「Oh my God !」
narration:He runs back inside taking the smelly trainers with him .
 INT . TARDIS
 The Doctor enters the TARDIS , grinning . He runs to the console , smacks down a few buttons and turns a handle and beams up at it when it starts to move .
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 Outside , the TARDIS begins to disappear just as Mickey runs out of the flats .
MICKEY:「Oi , Doctor ! Doctooooooooor !」
narration:He sprints up to the TARDIS and throws himself at it , but just ends up hitting the heavily graffitied corrugated iron behind it and falls backwards from the impact . He gets up again and brushes himself down , casting furtive looks around him to make sure no one saw him . He then walks off with as much dignity as he can muster .
 INT . TARDIS
 The console starts to smoke . Looking slightly put - out , the Doctor hits it a couple of times with a hammer . Amazingly , this helps , and the Doctor kisses the hammer and gazes up at the console with a childish beam on his face .
 EXT . DOWNING STREET
 10 Downing Street is heavily guarded on the outside .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM CORRIDOR
 Harriet Jones places a cup of coffee on Indra 's desk . He looks up at her .
HARRIET:「I bet no one 's bought you a coffee .」
narration:She laughs slightly .
INDRA:「Thank you .」
HARRIET:「Pleasure .」
narration:He picks the cup up . She does n't leave , but looks down at him expectantly .
INDRA:「You still ca n't go in .」
HARRIET:「Damn , you 've seen through my cunning plan .」
INDRA:「Look , I 'm sorry . It 's just impossible .」
narration:He gets up .
HARRIET:「Not even for two minutes ?」
narration:He shakes his head .

HARRIET (  ):「I do n't get many chance to walk these corridors . I 'm hardly one of the babes , just a faithful back bencher . And I know we 've had a brave new world land right on our doorstep , and that 's wonderful . I think that 's probably wonderful . Nevertheless , ordinary life keeps ticking away . ( Rifles through her handbag and pulls out a folder ) . I need to enter this paper .」
narration:Joseph Green , Margaret Blaine and Oliver Charles emerge from the cabinet room .
HARRIET (  ):「Oh ! Mr. Green , sir , I know you 're busy , but could you put this on the next cabinet agenda ?」
JOSEPH:「What is it ?」
HARRIET:「Cottage hospitals ...」
narration:Joseph looks at Indra in alarm who gives an apologetic and resigned wave of his hand .
HARRIET (  ):「I 've worked out a system whereby cottage hospitals do not have to be excluded from centers of excellence . You see , my mother 's in the Flydale infirmary . That 's my constituency , tiny lisle place , you would n't know it , but to give me a chance to ...」
JOSEPH:「By all the saints , get some perspective , woman ! I 'm busy .」
narration:All of them , including Indra , file out of the room , each giving her a funny look as they pass . Harriet is left alone holding her papers . She looks to make sure they are really gone , then slips into the cabinet room .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 Harriet places her papers on the table , on top of the emergency protocols . She then seems to change her mind and picks them up again . She opens the case and puts it inside instead . Satisfied , she is just about to close it again when she spots the folder with " Emergency Protocols - Classified Information " written on the front . She sits on the chair in front of the case and opens the folder . She begins to read the first page with a look of awe on her face .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , MORTUARY
 Dr Sato settles herself in front of her desk , picks a pen up and begins to write . She hears a thumping noise in the distance . She pauses for a moment but then decides to ignore it . Then she hears it again . She turns around . The thumping repeats itself over and over again . It seems to be coming from the place where the alien was put . She stares at it warily .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , STOREROOM
 The Doctor emerges from the TARDIS , which seems to have landed squashed up in a small storeroom . He looks around in slight confusion and then makes his way to the door . He turns on his sonic screwdriver , which makes a loud buzzing noise . He turns it off again hurriedly .
Doctor Who:「Shh !」

narration:INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , MORTUARY
 Dr Sato edges towards the door of the alien 's cupboard . The thumping has become even more frantic , as though something is running around inside , banging against the walls .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , STOREROOM
 The Doctor finishes unlocking the door , puts his sonic screwdriver away and opens it .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , ANTEROOM
 The Doctor finds himself in a room where about 20 soldiers are sitting around talking and laughing . They fall silent when he opens the door . There is a pause while they all stare at each other , then they all leap to their feet and point their guns at him . The Doctor grins . Again .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , MORTUARY
 Dr Sato approaches the door . She pulls it open and screams .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , ANTEROOM
 Upon hearing the scream , the Doctor stops smiling and runs to the door .
Doctor Who:「Defence part delta ! Come on , move , move !」
narration:All the soldiers follow him from the room in the direction of the scream .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , CORRIDOR
 They run down the corridors . The Doctor spots Dr Sato cowering on the floor .
DR SATO:「It 's alive !」

narration:The Doctor turns to the men behind him .
Doctor Who:「Spread out . Tell the perimeter it 's a lock down .」
narration:He runs to Dr Sato 's side and holds her hands .
DR SATO:「My God , it 's still alive .」
narration:The men are still standing there watching them .
Doctor Who:「Do it !」
narration:They run off and start searching the building . The Doctor turns back to Dr Sato . Blood is leaking out from under her hairline .
DR SATO:「I swear it was dead .」
Doctor Who:「Coma , shock , hibernation , anything . What does it look like ?」
narration:There is a slight sound from behind him . He turns around quickly .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「It 's still here .」
narration:He stands up and beckons another soldier into the room . He walks forward quietly , looking for the source of the sound . When he hears another rattling , he drops to his knees and crawls to peer behind the desk . From the other side of the desk , the face of a pig peers back at him , snorting .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Hello !」
narration:The pig squeals in terror and runs across the room . The soldier readies his gun .

THE DOCTOR (  ):「Do n't shoot !」
narration:The pig runs along the corridor . One of the soldiers points his gun at it and shoots before the Doctor can stop him .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「What did you do that for ? It was scared !」
narration:The soldier looks from him to the pig in alarm . The Doctor crouches down to look at the pig .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「It was scared .」
narration:He strokes the pig as it dies .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 Harriet Jones hears voices approaching the cabinet room .
ASQUITH:「I 've got the White House phoning me direct because Downing Street wo n't answer their calls ! This is outrageous ! We have n't even started the vaccination prota . This is appalling . The nations of the world are watching the United Kingdom !」
JOSEPH:「Well , it has all been a bit of a shock .」
ASQUITH:「This is the greatest crisis in modern history and you 've done nothing ! Your behaviour has been shameful , sir . You 're supposed to be in charge and we need positive leadership . The capital 's ground to a halt .」
narration:They enter the room . Harriet disappears into a cupboard just in time .
ASQUITH:「Furthermore , we can only assume that the Prime Minister 's disappearance is the direct result of hostile alien action . And what have you been doing ? Nothing .」
JOSEPH:「Sorry ! Sorry . Uh ... I thought I was Prime Minister now .」
ASQUITH:「Only by default .」
JOSEPH:「Ooooh , that 's not fair ! I 've been having such fun .」
narration:The Captain looks outraged .
ASQUITH:「You think this is FUN ?」
JOSEPH:「It 's a hoot , this job .」
narration:Joseph , Margaret and Oliver all start to laugh .
MARGARET:「Honestly ! It 's super !」
narration:Oliver farts .
OLIVER:「Oh ! S'cuse me ! ( Farts again ) . Ooo !」
narration:They burst out laughing again .
ASQUITH:「What 's going on here ? And where 's the rest of the cabinet ? Why have n't they been air lifted in ?」
JOSEPH:「Cancelled it . They 'd only get in the way.(Farts ) . Oh , there I go .」
narration:He farts twice more , heartily . Margaret joins in .
MARGARET:「Oh , and me ! I 'm shaking my booty .」
narration:More hysterical laughter punctuated by farts .
ASQUITH:「Sir ! Under section 5 of the emergency protocols , it is my duty to relieve you of command .」
narration:Joseph stops laughing and looks up at the captain darkly .
ASQUITH:「And by God , I 'll put this country under marshal law if I have to .」

JOSEPH ( sarcastically ):「Oh , I 'm SCARED . I mean , that 's hair raising . I mean , literally . Look !」
narration:He unzips his forehead . A bright blue light shines from the gap . Bewildered , the captain looks at the other two , who also unzip their foreheads . Where she is watching from a crack through the door , Harriet 's eyes widen in shock . There are some disgusting and worrying noises from the cabinet room and Harriet leans back against the wall of the cupboard , horrified .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , MORTUARY
 Dr Sato and the Doctor are standing over the pig 's body .
DR SATO:「I just assumed that 's what alien 's look like . But you 're saying it 's an ordinary pig ? From Earth ?」
Doctor Who:「More like a mermaid . Victorian showmen used to draw the crowds by taking the skull of a cat and gluing it to a fish and calling it a mermaid . Now , someone 's taken a pig , opened up it 's brain , stuck bits on ... then they strapped it in that ship and made it dive bomb . It must 've been terrified . They 've taken this animal and turned it into a joke .」

DR SATO:「So it 's a fake . A pretend . Like the mermaid . But the technology augmenting its brain ... it 's like nothing on Earth . It 's alien . Aliens are faking aliens . But why would they do that ... ? ( Turns to face the Doctor , only to find he has vanished ) . Doctor ?」
narration:Hurries from room after him .
 INT . ALBION HOSPITAL , CORRIDOR
 Dr Sato looks up and down a long corridor .
DR SATO:「Doctor ?」
narration:She turns as she hears the sound of the TARDIS engines . Obviously , she does not know what this sound is .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , LIVING ROOM
 Rose 's sitting room is extremely crowded . Jackie raises her wine glass in a toast .
JACKIE:「Here 's to the Martians !」
EVERYONE:「The Martians !」
narration:Mickey appears in the doorway . The laughter dies away as he stares at Rose in her armchair . She looks around to see why everyone has gone quiet and sits up quickly when she sees him standing there .
ROSE:「I was gon na come and see you .」
narration:He just stares at her .
WOMAN:「Someone owes Mickey an apology .」
ROSE:「I 'm sorry .」
WOMAN:「Not you .」
narration:Looks at Jackie .
JACKIE:「It 's not my fault . Be fair . What was I supposed to think ?」
narration:Gives Mickey a look and walks into the kitchen .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , KITCHEN
MICKEY:「You disappear , who do they turn to ? Your boyfriend . Five times , I was taken in for questioning . Five times . No evidence , of course there could n't be , could there . And then I get her , your mother . ( Points at Jackie who rolls her eyes ) . Whispering around the estate , pointing the finger , stuff through my letterbox , and all 'cos of you .」
ROSE:「I did n't think I 'd be gone so long .」
MICKEY:「And I waiting for you , Rose ! Twelve months . Waiting for you and the Doctor to come back .」
JACKIE:「Hold on , you knew about the Doctor ? Why did n't you tell me ?」
narration:Mickey notices someone trying to listen through the window into the kitchen . He slams them shut and closes the door .
MICKEY:「Yeah , yeah . Why not , Rose ? Huh ? How could I tell her where you went ?」
JACKIE:「Tell me now .」
MICKEY:「I might as well , 'cos you 're stuck here . The Doctor 's gone . Just now , that box thing just faded away .」
ROSE:「What do you mean ?」
MICKEY:「He 's left you . Some boyfriend HE turned out to be .」

narration:Rose runs from the kitchen , grabbing a jacket from the back of the door on her way out . Mickey follows her . Jackie stays sitting down , looking frustrated .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 Rose and Mickey are standing at the spot where the TARDIS was parked .
ROSE:「He would n't just go , he promised me .」
MICKEY:「Oh , he 's dumped you , Rose . Sailed off into space . How does it feel , huh ? Now you are left behind with the rest of us Earthlings . Get used to it .」
ROSE:「But he would have said .」
narration:Jackie walks over to them .
JACKIE:「What 're you two chimps going on about ? What 's going on ? What 's this Doctor done now ?」
narration:Mickey chortles .
MICKEY:「He 's vamoosed !」
ROSE ( angrily ):「He 's not ! 'Cos he gave me this !」
narration:She shows him the TARDIS key . Mickey gives a " so what ? " sort of shrug .
ROSE (  ):「He 's not my boyfriend , Mickey , he 's better than that . He 's much more important than ...」
narration:She breaks off as the TARDIS key starts to glow in time with the sound of the TARDIS engines .
ROSE (  ):「I said so .」
narration:The engines get louder . Rose turns to her mother .
ROSE (  ) ( urgently ):「Mum ! Mum , go inside . Mum , do n't stand there , just go inside . Just , mum , go ...」
narration:But Jackie is not listening to her . She is staring transfixed over Rose 's shoulder , where the TARDIS is appearing out of thin air . The engines grind to a halt . Mickey points to the TARDIS meaningfully .
MICKEY:「Uh ?」
narration:Jackie stares at it in amazement .
JACKIE:「How 'd you do that , then ?」
narration:Rose looks at her warily .
 INT . TARDIS
 Rose enters the TARDIS where the Doctor is looking at the computer screen .
Doctor Who:「Alright , so I lied ! I went and had a look , but the whole crash landing 's a fake , I thought so , it 's just too perfect . I mean , " hitting Big Ben " come on , so I thought let 's go and have a look ...」

ROSE:「My mum 's here .」
narration:The door creaks open and Jackie and Mickey enter . The Doctor looks around .
Doctor Who:「Oh , that 's just what I need . Do n't you dare make this place domestic !」
MICKEY:「You ruined my life , Doctor .」
narration:The Doctor spins smoothly around to face him .
MICKEY (  ):「They thought she was dead . I was a murder suspect because of you .」
THE DOCTOR ( to Rose ):「See what I mean ? Domestic .」
narration:The Doctor spins back to face the computer screen . Mickey takes a few steps towards him .
MICKEY:「I bet you do n't even remember my name !」
Doctor Who:「Ricky .」
MICKEY:「It 's Mickey .」
Doctor Who:「No , it 's Ricky .」
MICKEY:「I think I know my own name .」
Doctor Who:「You THINK you know your own name ? How stupid are you ?」
narration:Jackie , who has been looking around the TARDIS with a bewildered expression , turns and runs outside again .
ROSE:「Mum , do n't ! ( To the Doctor ) . Do n't go anywhere ! ( To Mickey ) . Do n't start a fight !」

narration:EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 Jackie runs outside and back to the flats . Rose pursues her out of the doors .
ROSE (  ):「Mum , it 's not like that ! He 's not ... I 'll be up in a minute , hold on !」
narration:INT . TARDIS
 She runs back inside the TARDIS and back to the Doctor 's side , where he is looking at his monitor again .
ROSE (  ):「That was a real spaceship ?」
Doctor Who:「Yep !」
ROSE:「So , it 's all a pack of lies ? What is it then , are they invading ?」
narration:Mickey is on tip - toes peering at the screen over their shoulders .
MICKEY:「Funny way to invade , putting the world on red alert .」
THE DOCTOR ( mildly impressed ):「Good point ! So , what 're they up to ?」
narration:INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , JACKIE 'S BEDROOM
 On the TV , a news channel - footage of the spaceship crash landed in the Thames .
REPORTER:「As the crisis continues and the government shows remarkable lack of leadership , paranoia sweeps the country .」
narration:Jackie is sitting on the end of her bed , looking frustrated and restless . She sighs and kneads her forehead .

REPORTER (  ):「There have been at least three reports of public assaults on people publicly identified as aliens .」
narration:Jackie 's look of anxiety increases .
REPORTER (  ):「And now back to Tom Kitchnenson .」
narration:Jackie falls back onto the bed , her hands over her face .
TOM KITCHENSON:「Are there more ships to come ?」
narration:Jackie turns her attention to the television .
TOM KITCHENSON (  ):「What is their intention ? The authorities are now asking if ANYONE knows ANYTHING . If any previous sighting has been made , then call this number .」
narration:Jackie reaches for the telephone .
TOM KITCHENSON (  ):「We need your help .」
narration:Jackie dials the number on the screen . The first two times it is engaged . The third time , she manages to get through .
JACKIE:「Yes ! I 've seen one . I really have , an alien . And she 's with him ! My daughter , she 's with him . And she 's not safe . Oh , my God ... she 's not safe .」
narration:Jackie exhales and sits back down on the foot of the bed .
JACKIE (  ):「I 've seen an alien . And I know his name , he 's called " The Doctor " .」
narration:INT . COMPUTER SCREEN
 The words ' The Doctor ' are typed into a computer .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , JACKIE 'S BEDROOM
JACKIE:「It 's a box . A blue box .」
narration:INT . COMPUTER SCREEN
 " Blue Box " is typed in .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , JACKIE 'S BEDROOM
JACKIE:「She called it a " TARDIS " .」
narration:INT . COMPUTER SCREEN
 " TARDIS " is typed in . An alarm goes off .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
Indra enters at a run . The computer screen is flashing the words:「RED ALERT - THE DOCTOR .」
narration:INT . TARDIS
 Inside the TARDIS , Mickey peers curiously down at the Doctor , where he is once again wedged under the console .
MICKEY:「So , what 're you doing down there ?」
THE DOCTOR ( muffled , due to the sonic screwdriver he 's holding between his teeth ):「Ricky .」
MICKEY:「Mickey . THE DOCTOR ( takes the sonic screwdriver out of his mouth to make himself clearer )」
narration:Mickey rolls his eyes , irked .
Doctor Who:「If I was to tell you what I was doing to the controls of my frankly magnificent time ship , would you even begin to understand ?」

MICKEY:「I suppose not ...」
Doctor Who:「Shut it , then .」
narration:He puts the sonic screwdriver back between his teeth . Mickey gives him the evil eye , and moves back round the console to where Rose is standing .
MICKEY:「Some friend you 've got .」
ROSE:「He 's winding you up .」
narration:Mickey still looks slightly upset . He does not answer .
ROSE:「I am sorry .」
MICKEY:「It 's okay .」
ROSE ( earnestly ):「I am , though !」
MICKEY:「Every day , I looked . On every street corner , wherever I went , looking for a blue box for a whole year .」
ROSE:「It 's only been a few days for me . I do n't know , it 's ... it 's hard to tell inside this thing but I swear it 's just a few days since I left you .」
MICKEY:「Not enough time to miss me , then ?」
ROSE ( smiles ):「I did miss you .」
MICKEY:「I missed you .」
ROSE:「So , erm ... in twelve months , have you been seeing anyone else ?」
MICKEY:「No .」
ROSE:「' Kay ...」

MICKEY:「Mainly because everyone thinks I murdered you .」
ROSE:「Right .」
MICKEY:「So ... now that you 've come back ... are you gon na stay ?」
narration:He leans in to kiss her , but the moment is broken by the sound of sparks from beneath the console .
Doctor Who:「Got it ! Haha !」
narration:Rose moves to the other side of the console to join him .
THE DOCTOR (  ):「Patched in the radar , looped it back twelve hours so we can follow the flight of the spaceship , here we go ... hold on ... ( Whacks the computer screen ) . Come on ! ( Shows Rose the graphic on the screen ) . That 's the spaceship on it 's way to Earth ... see ? Except ... hold on ... see , the spaceship did a sling shot round the Earth before it landed .」
ROSE:「What does that mean ?」
Doctor Who:「It means it came from Earth in the first place , it went up and came back down . Whoever those aliens are , they have n't just arrived . They 've been here for a while . The question is , what have they been doing ?」

narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 In the cabinet room , the alien who was previously inside the body of Oliver is now finishing putting on the skin suit of the General Asquith .
ASQUITH:「What do you think ? How 's the compression ? I think I 've got too much ballast round the middle ... (Farts ) . Ah , that 's better .」
narration:From the cupboard , Harriet Jones 's eyes widen with shock and confusion .
MARGARET:「We 've really got to fix the gas exchange . It 's getting ridiculous .」
JOSEPH:「I do n't know , it seems very human to me . Ah , better get rid of his skin ...」
narration:Asquith picks up the discarded skin of Oliver .
ASQUITH:「Shame ! I quite enjoyed being Oliver . He had a wife , a mistress , and a young farmer .」
narration:He makes towards the cupboard where Harriet is standing . She retreats further to the back . He opens the door and chucks the skin inside . He looks back at Margaret and Joseph .
ASQUITH (  ):「God , I was busy .」
narration:They laugh . He shuts the door again .
JOSEPH:「Back to work !」
ASQUITH:「I have an army to command !」
MARGARET:「Careful now ...」
narration:They leave the room , their voices retreating . Harriet picks up the discarded skin of Oliver , and examines it .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM CORRIDOR
 Indra rushes up to Margaret , Asquith and Joseph .
INDRA:「General Asquith ! Sir , we 've had a priority alarm . It 's code nine confirmed code nine .」
narration:Harriet Jones hurries out of the cupboard .
ASQUITH:「Code nine , huh ? Which would mean ... ?」
narration:Margaret gives a small and apologetic laugh while Joseph shakes his head behind him .
INDRA:「Well , in the event of the emergency protocols being activated ... we 've got software that automatically searches all communications for key words . And one of those words is " Doctor " . I think we 've found him , sir .」
MARGARET:「What sort of Doctor ? Who is he ?」
INDRA:「Well , evidently he 's some sort of expert in extra - terrestrial affairs , the ultimate expert ! And we need him , sir . We need him here right now !」
narration:Harriet pulls a face .
 INT . TARDIS
 The Doctor is switching the television from channel to channel .
MICKEY:「How many channels do you get ?」
Doctor Who:「All the basic packages .」

MICKEY:「You get sports channels ?」
Doctor Who:「Yes , I get the football . ( Looks back at the screen ) . Hold on , I know that bloke .」
REPORTER:「It is looking likely that the government is bringing in alien specialists , those people who have devoted their lives to studying outer space .」
Doctor Who:「UNIT ! United Nations Intelligence Task force , good people .」
ROSE:「How do you know them ?」
MICKEY:「'Cos he 's worked for them . Yeah , do n't think I sat on my backside for twelve months , Doctor . I read up on you . You look deep enough on the Internet ... and in the history books , and there 's his name . Followed by a list of the dead .」
Doctor Who:「That 's nice . Good boy , Ricky .」
ROSE:「If you know them , why do n't you go and help ?」
Doctor Who:「They would n't recognize me . I 've changed a lot since the old days . Besides , the world 's on a knife - edge . There 's aliens out there and fake aliens . We want to keep this alien out of the mix . I 'm going undercover ... and eh , better keep the TARDIS out of site . Rickey ! You 've got a car - you can do some driving .」

narration:He walks towards the TARDIS door .
MICKEY:「Where to ? !」
Doctor Who:「The roads are clearing . Let 's go and have a look at that spaceship .」
narration:EXT . POWELL ESTATE
 They step out of the TARDIS to the sound of helicopters . They are immediately caught out by a searchlight .
LOUDSPEAKER:「Do not move !」
narration:Police cars and soldiers surround them , pointing guns and them and preventing their escape . Mickey makes a run for it . Jackie runs out of the flats and tries to get to Rose but two soldiers restrain her .
JACKIE:「No !」
narration:Mickey is hiding behind some dustbins . The Doctor and Rose are standing in the centre looking slightly confused in the searchlight .
LOUDSPEAKER:「Raise your hands above your head ! You are under arrest !」
narration:The Doctor and Rose obey .
Doctor Who:「Take me to your leader !」
narration:INT . CAR
 Rose clambers into the back of a police car next to the Doctor . The door shuts and they drive off .
ROSE:「This is a bit posh . If I knew it was gon na be like this , being arrested , I 'd have done it years ago .」

Doctor Who:「We 're not being arrested , we 're being escorted !」
ROSE:「Where to ?」
Doctor Who:「Where 'd you think ? Downing Street !」
narration:He laughs . Rose joins in .
ROSE:「You 're kidding .」
Doctor Who:「I 'm not !」
ROSE:「10 Downing Street ?」
Doctor Who:「That 's the one !」
narration:Rose laughs with glee .
ROSE:「Oh , my God ! I 'm going to 10 Downing Street ?」
narration:The Doctor nods , grinning .
ROSE:「How come ?」
Doctor Who:「I hate to say it , but Mickey was right . Over the years I 've visited this planet a lot of times , and I 've been , uh , noticed .」
ROSE:「Now they need you ?」
Doctor Who:「Like it said on the news , they 're gathering experts in alien knowledge . And who 's the biggest expert of the lot ?」
narration:He grins expectantly at her .
ROSE:「Patrick Moore ?」
Doctor Who:「Apart from him !」
ROSE:「Ah , do n't you just love it ...」

Doctor Who:「I 'm telling you , Lloyd George , he used to drink me under the table . Who 's the Prime Minister now ?」
ROSE:「How should I know ? I missed a year .」
narration:EXT . DOWNING STREET
 The car pulls up outside 10 Downing Street . The paparazzi and hundreds of police men are there . The Doctor gets out of the car and waves at them all , grinning manically . Rose smiles nervously and the looks up at 10 Downing Street .
ROSE ( under her breath ):「Oh my God !」
narration:She follows the Doctor inside .
 INT . TYLERS ' FLAT , LIVING ROOM
 Jackie is talking to three police officers .
JACKIE:「So , she 's alright then ? She 's not in any trouble ?」
STRICKLAND:「Well , all I can say is , your daughter and her ' companion ' might be in a position to help the country . We 'll need to know how she made contact with this man , if he is a man . ( Sits down with a loud grumble from his belly ) . Oh ! Right , off you go then . I need to talk to Mrs Tyler on my own , thank - you .」

narration:The other two police officers exit the flat .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET RECEPTION
 Harriet Jones slips inconspicuously down the stairs . She enters a room where the alien experts are standing around talking , waiting for the meeting to begin . She flashes her ID card at the policeman standing guard at the door .
HARRIET:「Harriet Jones , MP , Flydale North .」
narration:She mingles amongst the people . Indra enters .
INDRA:「Ladies and Gentlemen , could we convene ? Quick as we can , please . It 's this way on the right and can I remind you , ID cards are to be worn at all times . ( Approaches the Doctor , gives him an ID card ) . Here 's your ID card . I 'm sorry , your companion does n't have clearance .」
Doctor Who:「I do n't go anywhere without her .」
narration:Loops the ID card around his neck .
INDRA:「You 're the code nine , not her .」
narration:Harriet sidles up to them .
INDRA (  ):「I 'm sorry , Doctor ... it is the Doctor , is n't it ? She 'll have to stay outside .」
Doctor Who:「She 's staying with me .」

INDRA:「Look , even I do n't have clearance to go in there . I ca n't let her in and that 's a fact .」
ROSE ( to the Doctor ):「It 's alright , you go .」
narration:Harriet appears at Indra 's shoulder .
HARRIET:「Excuse me ? Are you the Doctor ?」
narration:Indra looks positively exasperated .
INDRA:「Not now , we 're busy . Ca n't you go home ?」
THE DOCTOR ( to Rose ):「Are you sure ?」
ROSE:「Yeah , they 're the experts , you should hear what they 've got to say .」
Doctor Who:「I s'pose so . Do n't get into any trouble .」
narration:The Doctor follows the other experts into the room .
HARRIET ( to Indra ):「I just need a word in private .」
INDRA:「You have n't got clearance , now leave it ! ( Takes Rose 's arm ) . I 'm going to have to leave you with security .」
narration:Begins to lead her away .
HARRIET:「It 's alright . I 'll look after her . Let me be of some use . ( To Rose ) . Walk with me . Just keep walking ...」

narration:They walk past the guards at the door .
HARRIET (  ):「That 's right ... do n't look round ! Harriet Jones , MP Flydale North .」
narration:Shows Rose her ID card .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
 The experts are sitting down in their seats . Joseph and Asquith make their way to the desk at the front . The Doctor enters last and takes a seat at the back of the room , reading the booklet he finds on the chair extremely quickly .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , DOWNSTAIRS CORRIDOR
 Harriet is outside in the corridor talking to Rose .
HARRIET ( upset and distressed ):「This friend of yours ... he 's an expert , is that right ? He knows about aliens ?」
ROSE:「Why do you wanna know ?」
narration:Harriet breaks down into tears . Rose takes her arms awkwardly in an attempt to comfort her .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
ASQUITH:「Ladies and Gentlemen , I 'd like to have your attention please . As you can see from the summaries in front of you , the ship had one porcine occupant ...」
Doctor Who:「Now , the really interesting bit happened three days ago , see , filed away under every other business . The North Sea , the satellite detected a signal , a little blip of radiation at one hundred fathoms like there was something down there ... you were just about to investigate and the next thing you know , this happens , spaceships , pigs , massive diversion , from what ?」

narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 Harriet Jones is back in the cabinet room and showing Rose the body suit of Oliver .
HARRIET:「They turned the body into a suit ! A disguise for the thing inside !」
narration:Bursts into tears again .
ROSE:「It 's alright ! I believe you . It 's ... it 's alien . They must have some serious technology behind this ... if we could find it ... ( Starts rummaging around the room ) ... we could use it .」
narration:She opens a cupboard and the Prime Minister 's body falls out . Rose and Harriet hurry to examine it .
ROSE (  ):「Oh , my God ! Is that ... ?」
narration:Indra enters .
INDRA:「Harriet , for God 's sake ! This has gone beyond a joke , you can not just wander ... ( Spots the body on the floor ) . Oh , my God . That 's the Prime Minister !」
narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
 The Doctor is still lecturing the experts , Asquith and Joseph .
Doctor Who:「If aliens fake an alien crash and an alien pilot , what do they get ? ( aA pause as he works it out ) . Us . They get us . It 's not a diversion , it 's a trap .」

narration:INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
MARGARET:「Ohhh !」
narration:Indra , Rose and Harriet turn to see Margaret enter the cabinet room .
MARGARET (  ):「Has someone been naughty ?」
narration:They look at each other . Margaret shuts the door behind her .
 INT . TYLERS ' FLAT , KITCHEN
 Jackie goes into the kitchen . She is still speaking to the officer , Strickland .
JACKIE:「It was bigger on the inside . I dunno , what do I know about spaceships ?」
STRICKLAND:「That 's what worries me . You see , this man is classified as " trouble " . Which means that anyone associated with him uis trouble . ( Looks at Jackie through the hatch , retreats back into the living room)/ And that 's my job . ( Takes off his hat to reveal a zip on his forehead ) . Eliminating trouble .」
narration:He starts to undo the zip , filling the room with a blue light .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
INDRA:「That 's impossible . He left this afternoon . The Prime Minister left Downing Street , he was driven away !」
MARGARET:「And who told you that ? Hmm ? ( Walks to the baffled Indra ) . Me .」
narration:Strokes the hair from her forehead .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
Doctor Who:「This is all about us .」

narration:A recap of 1x04 " Aliens of London " .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
 With a huge effort , the Doctor manages to shake the electricity from his body . Sweating , he staggers to his feet with it held in his hand .
Doctor Who:「Deadly to humans , maybe .」
narration:He plunges it into the chest of the Slitheen . Both Joseph and the Slitheen howl with pain .
 OPENING CREDITS
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 Margaret , also covered in the electricity , drops Indra 's body from the wall .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , KITCHEN
 In the kitchen , the Slitheen who was attacking Jackie is also suffering .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
 The Doctor dashes to the door , past the bodies .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CABINET ROOM
 Rose grabs Harriet 's hand and they run from the room , Harriet whimpering slightly , Rose just looking terrified .
 INT . TYLER 'S FLAT , KITCHEN
 Jackie is still crouched on the floor in horror , watching the alien screeching in pain . Mickey appears in the doorway .
MICKEY:「Jackie !」

narration:He whacks the Slitheen over the head with a chair , grabs Jackie 's arms and pulls her out of the kitchen . He pauses in the doorway to take his phone out of his pocket and snap a picture of the Slitheen . He grins , and then runs to join Jackie .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , RECEPTION
 The Doctor finds security all gathered in reception .
Doctor Who:「Oi ! You want aliens , you 've got them . They 're inside Downing Street . ( Claps his hands ) . Come on !」
narration:He leads them in the direction of the conference room , their guns at the ready .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
 Joseph finally manages to deactivate the weapon , and the electricity disappears . He picks up the skin suit of General Asquith .
SLITHEEN / ASQUITH:「Reinstate my disguise ! Hurry up ! Hurry ! Hurry !」
narration:Joseph hastens to help the Slitheen into the skin suit .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , UPSTAIRS CORRIDORS
 Rose and Jackie run down a corridor .
HARRIET:「No , wait ! ( They stop ) . They 're still in there ! The emergency protocols ! We need them !」

narration:She runs back in the direction of the cabinet room . Rose follows her , but they are quickly forced to change direction as Margaret Slitheen comes their way . She chases them . They run across a hallway , Rose closing the door behind them . Margaret simply leaps through it . Rose and Harriet arrive back in another room , shutting the door behind them .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CONFERENCE ROOM
 The Doctor leads security into the meeting room , where Joseph is making the finishing touches to Asquith 's skin suit . They both stop when they see the Doctor and security standing there .
JOSEPH:「Where 've you been ?」
narration:Security start checking the bodies for any sign of life .
JOSEPH (  ):「I called for help , I sounded the alarm . There was this ... lightening ! This kind of er ... um ... electricity , and they all collapsed !」
SGT . PRICE:「I think they 're all dead .」
JOSEPH:「That 's what I 'm saying . He did it ! ( Points at the Doctor ) . That man there !」
Doctor Who:「I think you will find the Prime Minister is an alien in disguise .」
narration:Joseph folds his arms skeptically . The Doctor looks at the policeman next to him .

THE DOCTOR (  ):「That 's never going to work , is it ?」
POLICEMAN:「Nope .」
Doctor Who:「Fair enough .」
narration:He runs for it .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , CORRIDOR OUTSIDE CONFERENCE ROOM
 Security are hot on the Doctor 's tail , and he soon finds himself surrounded . He puts his hands in the air , grinning .
ASQUITH:「Under the jurisdiction of the Emergency Protocols , I authorize you to execute this man !」
narration:Security ready their guns .
Doctor Who:「Uh , well , now , yes . You see , eh ... the thing is ... if I was you , if I was going to execute someone by backing them against the wall , between you and me , little word of advice ... ( Life behind him pings open ) . Do n't stand them against the lift !」
narration:He backs into the lift and closes the door with his sonic screwdriver .
 INT . 10 DOWNING STREET , UPSTAIRS CORRIDORS
 Margaret Slitheen is still chasing Rose and Harriet . Rose knees a locked door . The lift pings open , revealing the Doctor . Margaret roars at him , and he smiles and nods around at them all .
THE DOCTOR ( pleasantly ):「Hello !」