narrator:INT. NIGHTMARE CHAPEL - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 The tiny Freddy dashes from the pews and jumps into a casket at the altar, slamming the lid shut. Meagan goes to the casket and carefully opens the lid. Inside -- a rotting corpse with worms and maggots crawling all over it. Meagan screams and slams the lid back down.
 The casket starts to move -- THUMP! THUMP! THUMP! Then it stops. Tentatively, Meagan opens the lid again.
 Inside -- FREDDY KRUEGER. He grabs her arm.
Freddy Krueger:「Where ya been all my death, baby?」

narrator:Meagan screams. Freddy leaps out of the casket in a tuxedo, crooning:
Freddy Krueger:「continuing) I've been waitin' at the altar for a long, long time!」

narrator:EXT. CULT COMPOUND - NEXT INSTANT
 The S.W.A.T. commander staggers out with the little girl, followed closely with the remainder of his men and finally Murdoch. The commander throws himself to the ground, covering the little girl with his body as -- BA-BOOM!!! -- the Elm Street house EXPLODES!
 Murdoch stands as debris rains down around him. He mutters:
MURDOCH:「Punks.」
narrator:As the dust settles, the S.W.A.T. commander rolls off the little girl and starts checking her for injury.
 S.W.A.T. COMMANDER Are you okay, honey?
 Suddenly, the little girl jumps onto the S.W.A.T. commander, flashing a glove of knives. She hisses:
 LITTLE GIRL HOSTAGE Freddy lives!
 With a quick swing, the little girl slashes the commander's face. She dives back for a plunge to his throat when Murdoch walks up and kicks her off. He puts his boot on her, holding her down as he takes aim on her head with his pistol -- execution style.
 S.W.A.T. COMMANDER NO!
 The S.W.A.T. commander grabs Murdoch's arm just in time. Several cops rush in and grab the girl, dragging her off, kicking and screaming.
 S.W.A.T. COMMANDER (continuing) Jesus... you were going to kill that kid, weren't you?
MURDOCH:「I told you you were wasting your time. Once these kids go rabid, best thing to do is put 'em down.」
narrator:S.W.A.T. COMMANDER You can't be serious...
MURDOCH:「Dead serious. See... the world is made up of rules. Kids don't like rules. They rebel for a while, but ultimately they start to fall in line and become ordinary Joe's like you and me. But some kids... dope smokers mainly, watching their MTV... Satanic lyrics melting what's left of their brains... these kids grow up to be punks. And when these punks step as far over the line as these "Freddy" punks have -- then we as peace officers have no choice but to kill them.」
narrator:S.W.A.T. COMMANDER I didn't become a peace officer to kill kids.
MURDOCH:「Punks. There's a difference... (under his breath) ...barely.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY
 CLOSE ON GRAFFITI written across lockers -- FREDDY LIVES!
 We move from this to a small classroom window. Through it we see Meagan sitting in economics class. The instructor -- MISS KREPPS -- is lecturing.
MISS KREPPS:「Blah-blah. Blah-blah-blah.)」
narrator:It's hot. Several of the kids fan themselves, struggling to stay awake while others have already passed out on their desks. Meagan's eyes are heavy. She looks over at Jesse, pretending to follow along in his book, fast asleep. The antique oscillating fan on Miss Krepps' desk CLICKS loudly as she drones on:
MISS KREPPS:「continuing) (Blah-blah-blah. Blah-blah.)」

narrator:Meagan starts to drift off, when...
MISS KREPPS:「continuing; loud) Meagan!?」
MEAGAN:「Yes, ma'am?」
MISS KREPPS:「I asked if you were ready to give your oral report?」
MEAGAN:「Yes... I'm ready.」
MISS KREPPS:「Please come up here to the podium.」
narrator:Meagan gets up and goes to the podium amidst the snickers of some of her classmates. Miss Krepps snaps her fingers for quiet.
MISS KREPPS:「continuing) You won't think it's funny when you haven't learned the fundamentals of a free market economy... oh, why do I waste my breath? You're all going to grow up to be gas station attendants and waitresses anyway. Go ahead, Meagan.」
MEAGAN:「My report is on Global Economic Trends. (clears throat; begins reading) Try and think of a world where there is no poverty... no sickness... no crime. A world where everyone is happy to be alive and everyone lives together in peace. This is my dream.」
narrator:The fan on Miss Krepps' desk starts to CLICK louder, BLOWING harder. Meagan raises an eyebrow but continues with her report.
MEAGAN:「continuing) This dream is becoming a reality with ever-growing international business...」
narrator:CLOSE ON THE FAN as it changes... getting creepier... turning into a Freddy-fan. BLOWING harder... CLICKING louder.
MISS KREPPS:「Louder, Meagan. We can't hear you.」
narrator:Meagan repeats the last few sentences, raising her voice to be heard over the fan. Then pages of her report start to blow away. She grabs at them as the WIND increases.
 A bottle of glue stowed in the podium overturns and spills to the floor at Meagan's feet. She bends over to pick it up, when her skirt blows up. She presses it down but the WIND is too great and the skirt billows up, revealing her underwear. The class roars with laughter.
MISS KREPPS:「continuing) Louder, Meagan... we still can't hear you.」
narrator:But Meagan isn't reading her report anymore, she's busy trying to push down her skirt when -- RIP! -- the WIND blows her skirt off. Her classmates fall over themselves, laughing. RIP! -- Meagan's blouse blows away. She tries to hide behind the podium when that too is swept off.
 Meagan clutches at her bra and panties as they start to drift away -- thread by thread. She is almost naked. Meagan looks up at her classmates, red in the face.
 Her classmates point and laugh -- only now they are all a bunch of old rotten skeletons. And up front, in the center where Miss Krepps sat... is Freddy! He wears a beanie with a propeller, points and laughs:
Freddy Krueger:「Aww... all dressed up and nowhere to blow!」

narrator:Meagan screams, clutching at the last few tiny strands of cloth that cover her body. She calls to Jesse, pleading:
MEAGAN:「Jesse... please, help me.」
narrator:But Jesse just sits at his desk -- dead. He reaches up and slowly lowers a hockey mask over his pale, expressionless face.
Freddy Krueger:「Looks like a photo opportunity to me!」
narrator:Freddy pulls out an over-sized camera with a gargantuan flashgun attached. The flash bulb is the size of a beach ball and has a nuclear warning etched in the front. Freddy sizes Meagan up in the viewfinder and sneers:
Freddy Krueger:「continuing) Say... cheesecake!」

narrator:INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - NEXT MOMENT
 Stormie and Erwin make their way through the creepy boiler room, calling for Meagan. A strange shadow stalks them -- it's Freddy. He drops down in front of Erwin and Stormie.
Freddy Krueger:「Looking for some-body?」
narrator:Freddy opens up his shirt to reveal a chest full of lost souls. In the center -- Meagan. Stormie charges Freddy, throwing her arms around him as she screams to Erwin:
STORMIE:「I've got him! Wake us up! Wake us up!」
narrator:But Erwin is paralyzed with fear.
STORMIE:「continuing) Don't just stand there! Wake us up!」
Freddy Krueger:「Hmmmmm... I feel like seafood tonight.」
narrator:Suddenly, Stormie's arms have become huge lobster claws. She jerks away from Freddy, but too late -- Stormie starts to change into a giant lobster-woman! Freddy smiles -- now he's wearing a chef's hat and apron.
Freddy Krueger:「continuing) Stew on this, bitch!」

narrator:INT. NIGHTMARE BOILER ROOM - SAME TIME
 Freddy turns toward Erwin.
Freddy Krueger:「Well, well, well... if it isn't my ol' pal, Erwin.」
narrator:Erwin stares wide-eyed, frozen to the spot.
Freddy Krueger:「continuing) I've got something special in mind for you...」

narrator:INT. SPRINGWOOD AUTO YARD - A SHORT TIME LATER
 The cultists are standing around a small pit that two cultists are carefully excavating in the center of the wrecking yard. Inside the pit, the uncovered remains of Freddy Krueger -- nothing more than a pile of charred bones.
 Lizzy is brought forward, held by a couple cultists, and injected with dream dope as the needle is passed around. She no longer struggles, accepting her fate with droopy eyes.
 LIZZY'S DREAM DOPE P.O.V. -- as she watches one of the cultists reach down and put a rusty funnel into Freddy's broken jawbone. Her vision gets blurry... more surreal as another cult member steps forward with the tupperware. He pours the dream demons into the funnel.
 CLOSE ON FREDDY'S REMAINS as the dream demons swim around inside his skull. His bones start to bleed... blood becoming arteries and veins... vessels becoming muscle... muscle growing scarred flesh...
 There is a FLASH from the pit. Then suddenly, Freddy Krueger -- as you've known him, as you've loved him -- leaps out of the pit and cries:
Freddy Krueger:「Smokin'!」

narrator:EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - NIGHT
 Headlights skew across a rusty iron gateway -- ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY -- illuminating a sign: TRESPASSERS WILL BE SHOT!
 Meagan, Jesse, Stormie, and Erwin enter the shadowy cemetery carrying lamps with shovels over their shoulders. As they search through the cemetery, Meagan asks:
MEAGAN:「What's the story on Jason Voorhees anyway?」
STORMIE:「Where have you been? Jason was that guy who ran around in a hockey mask, chopping up camp counselors, duh?」
MEAGAN:「I knew that. What I mean was why?」
ERWIN:「It started a long time ago, back in the fifties, when Jason drown at Camp Crystal Lake. His mother went berserk and started killing the counselors.」
STORMIE:「She got her head chopped off by one of the girls she was trying to kill!」
ERWIN:「Right. And then Jason came back from his watery grave to get revenge.」
JESSE:「He came back from the grave?」
ERWIN:「Yeah. Chopped up a number of people before they finally caught up to him.」
MEAGAN:「What happened to him then?」
ERWIN:「They killed him.」
JESSE:「How can you kill somebody who's back from the grave?」
ERWIN:「Not very well apparently. Jason keeps coming back to life and chopping people up. It's a never ending cycle of terror up here at Crystal Lake -- a real problem.」
MEAGAN:「Why does he keep coming back to life and killing people?」
ERWIN:「They say he's looking for revenge on the camp counselor who murdered him as a child. Jason just happens to go about it in the socially unacceptable way of hacking through every teenager he finds until he gets the right one. (spots grave) Here it is...」

narrator:Erwin shines his light on Jason's grave.
 ANGLE ON TOMBSTONE -- JASON VOORHEES. Born:1945. Died:1953.
 Beneath the death date, crudely scratched into the stone: 1981, 1982, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1988, etc.
 Jesse and Erwin start digging.
 ELLIPSIS -- cemetery statues watching them dig. Stormie and Meagan take their turn. Then... Jesse hits something solid.
 Hands brush away the remaining dirt, exposing the coffin below. Jesse takes a sharp breath and then jams a crowbar under the lid -- forcing it open.
 The casket lid cracks open a bit when -- SSSSSS! -- noxious gas escapes. Everyone covers their mouth and nose, suppressing the urge to hurl.
 Then roaches... hundreds of roaches.
 Meagan and Stormie run off, screaming, batting at their hair and clothing. Jesse rolls around on the ground. Erwin sighs, plucks a roach off his shirt, and calmly eats it.
 CUT TO:
 EXT. ETERNAL PEACE CEMETERY - A SHORT TIME LATER
 Meagan and Stormie stand just outside the grave, holding the light and a can of bug spray. Their hair is up, covered in plastic shower caps. Duct tape around the cuffs of their pants. They aren't taking anymore chances with bugs.
 Jesse and Erwin open the casket. Everyone recoils at the stench. Then they shine their lights inside -- nothing but rotting chunks and a broken hockey mask.
 CUT TO:
 The kids putting several plastic trash bags full of Jason into the trunk of Jesse's car and slamming the lid closed.
 Everyone piles into the car, exhausted.
 In the back, Erwin picks his nose, unaware that Stormie is watching him, her mouth gaping in horror. Erwin becomes aware of Stormie's sickened scrutiny and pulls out his finger, presenting it to Stormie.
ERWIN:「Look... the boogerman! (laughs) Get it?!」
narrator:Stormie slaps his hand away.
STORMIE:「Get back, you nasty-ass bastard! Ug! I thought I had seen the last of those when my brother graduated third grade!」
ERWIN:「We just dug up a rotting corpse and you're worried about a little snot.」
narrator:Jesse looks over at Meagan, curled up in a ball beside him. She purrs:
MEAGAN:「I'm exhausted... wake me when we get back home.」
ERWIN:「Uhhh... better not fall asleep -- we've still got a lot of work to do and Freddy's out there... waiting.」
narrator:This news sobers everyone up immediately.
STORMIE:「Well, that means we've all got to stay awake!」
JESSE:「Duh?!」
MEAGAN:「I know! We'll sing a song! (starts singing) Row! Row! Row your boat, gently down the stream. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily... life is but a dream. Come on, everybody!」

narrator:Meagan leads the none-too-enthusiastic group in another chorus of "Row Your Boat" as Jesse's car roars off into the night.
 DISSOLVE TO:
 EXT. LONELY ROAD - NIGHT
 Meagan is leaning up against the door, murmuring softly to herself as she drifts off to sleep:
MEAGAN:「merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily... life is but a dream.」
narrator:In the back seat, Erwin is nuzzled between Stormie's breasts, sucking his thumb. Both are fast asleep.
 Jesse stares at the road ahead, his own eyelids drooping. The car starts to weave.
 ANGLE OUT WINDSHIELD -- we flash past Freddy holding a cardboard sign by the side of the road: WILL KILL FOR FOOD.
 Jesse shakes his head -- nah! He tries to concentrate on the road, his eyelids falling once more.
 Jesse's car zooms past a billboard. Behind the bill- board -- a highway patrol car, a radar gun sticking out of the driver's window.
 CLOSE ON RADAR GUN as Jesse's car passes in the back- ground, the red digits cascading up.
 Freddy, now dressed as a highway patrolman, sits behind the wheel. The radar gun's display is reflected in his mirrored shades. It reads: KILL THEM.
Freddy Krueger:「Shouldn't dream and drive.」

narrator:Freddy starts the car and pulls out, but what comes out from behind the billboard isn't a patrol car -- it's Freddy's NIGHTMAREMOBILE -- big chrome pipes belching HELLFIRE.
 ANGLE IN JESSE'S REARVIEW MIRROR as Jesse's eyelids close and his head nods forward, revealing the night- maremobile closing from behind fast.
 The nightmaremobile runs up to the back of Jesse's car just an inch from the bumper. Freddy moves one of the dozen of levers on the dash.
 CLOSE ON FREDDY'S HOOD ORNAMENT -- a small version of Freddy's glove. It extends out towards the back of Jesse's car, one of the tiny knives inserting into the trunk lock and turning with a slight CLICK. The trunk lid opens.
 ANGLE INSIDE TRUNK -- the plastic bags with Jason's remains are moving! Freddy works another level and the tiny glove slits each bag. The various pieces of Jason (hands, boots, intestines, etc.) crawl out of the bag.
Freddy Krueger:「continuing) Looks like the cat's out of the bag now!」

narrator:EXT. OLD WEST STREET (NIGHTMARE) - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 Standing in the middle of the street is Jesse, dressed in a cowboy sheriff's outfit complete with hat, badge, and gunbelt.
 Meagan calls to him from the saloon door.
MEAGAN:「Jesse!」
narrator:But Jesse can't hear her. He's too busy shaking with fear... staring at something coming down the street.
 It's Freddy. Dressed in a Black Bart cowboy outfit.
Freddy Krueger:「ala John Wayne) Okay, Sheriff... This nightmare ain't big enough for the two of us... draw!」
narrator:Trembling with fear, Jesse fumbles for his pistol. He pulls it out and FIRES. Freddy laughs. Jesse FIRES again. Freddy just laughs. Jesse FIRES again and again and again and Freddy just laughs and laughs and laughs. From the saloon, Meagan screams:
MEAGAN:「Jesse! Wake up! Wake up!!」
narrator:Freddy looks over at her, annoyed.
Freddy Krueger:「Three's a crowd, bitch! Why don't you just go get [BEEP]」

narrator:INT. OLD WEST STREET (NIGHTMARE) - SAME TIME
 Jesse keeps FIRING at Freddy... until his gun CLICKS empty. Freddy smiles and pulls out the biggest Goddamn gun you ever saw and says:
Freddy Krueger:「Go ahead... make my dream!」

narrator:INT. CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME
 The deputy is so busy munching down on her burritos that she doesn't notice the strange shadow that passes behind her.
 The shadow moves down the cellblock, accompanied by a slight SCRAPING. Freddy's glove materializes, raking the knives along the metal cross bars. Freddy stops at Stormie's cell, looking inside.
 Stormie is fast asleep.
 Freddy walks into Stormie's cell, passing right through the bars. Suddenly, Stormie wakes and, seeing Freddy, jumps to her feet and screams.
STORMIE:「Help! Help! Freddy's here! He's here!」
narrator:But the deputy at the end of the cellblock doesn't respond, finishing off the rest of the burrito and licking her meaty fingers clean. Freddy puts his forefinger knife to his lips and shushes Stormie, pointing to her cot. Stormie looks over and sees her- self asleep.
STORMIE:「continuing) Oh, shit! I'm still asleep!」
narrator:She looks up at Freddy, who smiles and says:
Freddy Krueger:「You know what they say... when you sleep -- you die!」

narrator:INT. CELLBLOCK - SAME TIME
 Freddy taunts Stormie as the circle around in the cell by slicing off his fingers, squirting green slime. Stormie winces a little but keeps her distance and cool.
STORMIE:「You don't scare me, Freddy! Thanks to my various phases and many hours of watching violent televison, I have become immune to violence. Seen it all and done it all! Nothing you do can gross me out -- so why don't you give it your best shot, bitch!」
Freddy Krueger:「Then maybe I'll just CUT to the chase!」
narrator:Freddy swings the glove but Stormie ducks, keeping her defensive stance.
STORMIE:「I'm warning you, Freddy... my father is a drill sergeant in the Marine Corps and he taught me just how to defend myself against slimy bastards like you.」
Freddy Krueger:「Oh I'm so scared, honey. Come on! Hit me! Punch me right in the nose! I dare you!」
narrator:Freddy juts out his chin, gesturing for Stormie to take a punch. Stormie throws a right and pops Freddy right in the nose.
Freddy Krueger:「continuing; surprised) Owwwww!」

narrator:Stormie smiles but that soon fades as she realizes her fist is stuck in Freddy's nose. Freddy takes in a breath and Stormie's arm is sucked up past the elbow. She screams.
 Freddy takes a deep breath and snorts Stormie right up his nose, her screams turning into a faint BUZZ. Freddy smiles.
Freddy Krueger:「continuing) Now that's what I call getting a buzz.」

narrator:INT. STORMIE'S CELL &amp; NOSTRIL CAVERN - SAME TIME
 Freddy starts to dig in his nose with his forefinger knife.
 A giant knife blade comes charging up the nostril cavern, sending Stormie into hysterics.
 BOOGERMAN Uh-oh, Freddy's picking his nose again -- gotta go!
 Boogerman starts lumbering up into the back of the nostril cavern. Stormie watches the massive knife blade as it comes right for her, then at the last possible second she starts climbing after Boogerman. She pushes past the disgusting blob of goo, racing ahead.
 BOOGERMAN (continuing) Well, excuse me!
 INSERT -- Freddy pushes the knife way far back into his head.
 The giant knife spears Boogerman in the back, running him through and spilling his "Boogerman" guts out his front. Stormie gives a little squeal as Boogerman is pulled out, kicking and screaming.
 Freddy withdraws the knife from his nose, peering closely at the tiny Boogerman impaled on the end. He twists his mouth in utter disdain and flicks Booger- man across the cell.
 Boogerman screams as he flies across vast space, smack- ing into the far wall with a giant SPLAT! Boogerman flattens outwards into a thin pancake of Boogerman goo, his nasty head still alive in the center.
 Freddy reaches through the bars of the cell, his arm extending out in a grotesque fashion all the way to the deputy's desk. He feels around on the table until he touches the pepper shaker, drawing it back into Stormie's cell.
 Freddy sprinkles a small amount of pepper into his right palm and breathes it in deeply -- the specks of pepper becoming rocks that pelt Stormie as she clings to life deep inside the nostril.
 Freddy's face begins to distort, his nose wrinkling up -- the beginnings of a sneeze.
Freddy Krueger:「Ahhh... ahhh... ahhh--CHOO!」

narrator:EXT. POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 Meagan exits the station just as a patrol car pulls up. She reaches in and grabs the JUNIOR TROOPER, pulling him out. Then she slips behind the wheel and ROARS off. The junior trooper calls after her:
 JUNIOR TROOPER Hey, that's Captain Murdoch's car!
 CUT TO:
 INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME
 The cultists surround Reverend Lovejoy as he nervously shakes his head, saying:
REVEREND LOVEJOY:「I won't do it! It's a sin! Blasphemy!」
narrator:One of the cultists puts a gun to Mrs. Lovejoy's head.
CULTIST:「Wedding or funeral... your choice.」
narrator:The reverend swallows and says:
REVEREND LOVEJOY:「And who would be the bride?」
narrator:Lizzy is brought forth. The cultists take her arm and inject her with the dream dope. Lizzy's head lulls around as she chants softly:
LIZZY:「One... two... Freddy's coming for you.」
narrator:The rest of the cultists shoot up -- passing the needle from one to another.
LIZZY:「continuing) Three... four... Better lock your door.」
narrator:The good reverend watches this with a lump in his throat. He shudders and asks:
REVEREND LOVEJOY:「And the groom.」
CULTIST:「He's coming...」
narrator:Lizzy is almost asleep.
LIZZY:「Five... six... grab your crucifix...」
narrator:The neon cross behind the podium begins to flicker. Then with a sharp SNAP of electricity, the cross falls over, turning upside down. It hangs there for an instant then -- POW! -- the cross EXPLODES, catching the curtains on FIRE.
 As the FLAMES consume the curtains, a hole in reality appears -- a Dreamgate. Freddy comes springing out, leaping in front of the podium. He laughs and turns to Lizzy, asleep on the bench.
Freddy Krueger:「That's for the lift sister! (to the cultists) Hiya, kids!」

narrator:CULTISTS (in unison) Hiya, Freddy!
Freddy Krueger:「Ready to get hitched?」
narrator:CULTISTS Ready, Freddy!
Freddy Krueger:「Then let's do it!」
narrator:Lizzy looks up and smiles.
LIZZY:「I love you, Freddy...」
narrator:CUT TO:
 INT. POLICE STATION - AFTERNOON
 A DEPUTY comes up to Murdoch and says:
 DEPUTY We found your patrol car, Captain. It was abandoned near a local religious station.
MURDOCH:「Religious station? Is there a padre there?」
narrator:DEPUTY Yes, sir. Reverend Lovejoy broad- casts out of that location.
MURDOCH:「So that's where they're hiding.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME
 Lizzy and Freddy stand before Reverend Lovejoy.
REVEREND LOVEJOY:「and if there be anyone among you who has any reason why these two should not be joined in holy...」
narrator:Freddy holds up a finger -- "Ah-ah".

REVEREND LOVEJOY:「continuing) ...in matrimony. Let them speak now... (under his breath) ...please God... (aloud) ...or forever hold their peace.」
narrator:WHAM! -- Meagan bursts in.
MEAGAN:「Stop!」
narrator:Everyone turns and looks as Meagan comes to the pulpit.
MEAGAN:「continuing; to Freddy) Take me, Freddy. Take me instead.」
Freddy Krueger:「You're a virgin?!」
MEAGAN:「Oh, that's right -- tell everybody!」
narrator:Freddy moves close to Meagan, running a blade over and around Meagan's neck as she struggles to remain calm.
Freddy Krueger:「Mmmmmmm! Yes, you are a bit juicier than your retard sister... okay, you've got the job. (to cultists) Get her ready.」

narrator:INT. STUDIO - SAME TIME
 The wedding proceeds...
REVEREND LOVEJOY:「Once again... if there be anyone among you who does not want these two people to be joined... let him speak now or forever hold his peace.」
narrator:Meagan looks around... no one says anything. The reverend clears his throat to continue when...
 WHAM! -- the studio door flies open and Jason appears in the doorway holding the Jaws of Life.
Freddy Krueger:「Uh, oh...」

narrator:INT. NIGHTMARE ARENA - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 Jason falls into a boxing arena. The ropes are entrails and atop each corner post is mounted a human head. The spectators are all DEMONS, MONSTERS, and the LIVING DEAD.
 Jason looks over at his opponent -- dressed in boxing shorts, shoes, and gloves -- it's Freddy.
 Jason raises his arms and finds he too is wearing boxing gloves.
 TED BUNDY steps into the ring.
TED BUNDY:「into microphone) Ladies and gentlemen... welcome to the fight of the century! I'm your ring announcer... Ted Bundy!」
narrator:BANG! -- a bullet hole appears in Ted's forehead, BLOWING his brains out the back. He falls over DEAD and the crowd cheers. Ted sits up and pulls the wig back over his shaved head and electric burns as he calls into the balcony:
TED BUNDY:「continuing) Verrrrrry funny, Oswald!」
narrator:ANGLE IN BALCONY -- OSWALD stands, his rifle still smoking.
 OSWALD (angry; defensive) It wasn't me!
 Ted Bundy gets to his feet and finishes the intro:
TED BUNDY:「In my left corner, weighing in at only ninety seven pounds... the nightmare master himself! The one! The only... Freddddddddy Kruuuuuuugerrrrrr!!!」
narrator:Freddy holds up his arms and the crowd goes wild.
TED BUNDY:「continuing) And on my right... weighing in at a whopping four hundred and thir- teen pounds... that killer of countless teenagers... the big guy... (gestures to Jason) Jason Voorhees!」
narrator:CHEERS and BOOS.
TED BUNDY:「continuing) And the prize tonight... not one but TWO -- count 'em -- TWO virgins... ripe for the picking.」
narrator:Ted gestures to a large cage suspended over the arena. Inside -- Meagan and Lizzy clutch eachother.
TED BUNDY:「continuing) Hey, have one now and save the other for the ride home. That's what I did.」
narrator:LAUGHTER from the crowd.
MEAGAN:「Kick his ass, Jason!」
narrator:DING! -- the bell sounds. The first round begins...
 Freddy starts towards Jason, cocking his glove for a blow when -- CH-CHING! -- knife blades jut out of the glove. He punches Jason in the stomach and starts RIPPING him open, rotten guts spilling out.
 Jason spots a cocktail waitress walking past with an axe in her head. This is BLOODY MARY. Jason reaches over the side of the ring and pulls the axe out of her head. Bloody Mary whips around, yelling:
 BLOODY MARY HEY!
 Jason swings with the axe -- SH-WACK! -- Jason SLICES OFF Freddy's arm. The crowd ROARS. Freddy looks down at the open armpit, GUSHING with ROTTEN BLOOD, and shrugs:
Freddy Krueger:「Oh, well... I just axed for that!」

narrator:INT. STUDIO - CONTINUOUS ACTION
 Jason "wakes up", holding Freddy by the throat as he bangs his head into the lighting gridwork above the studio. A light EXPLODES and Freddy cries in pain... then realizes, he's been brought into the real world.
Freddy Krueger:「Oh, shit!」

narrator:INT. MEAGAN'S ROOM - NIGHT
 Meagan is ready for bed, drawing back the covers, when the phone RINGS. She picks it up.
MEAGAN:「Hello?」
Freddy Krueger:「filtered) I'll be seeing you in your dreams...」
