narrator:BELLE
 Oh... isn't this amazing? It's my favorite part because you'll see Here's where she meets Prince Charming But she won't discover that it's him `Til chapter three
 Three fashion-crazed VILLAGE LASSES -- all dressed in the same
 style -- pop their heads from the windows of the dress shop.
 Their MOTHER, who is besotted with Belle, heads outside when
 she sees her:
 VILLAGE LASSES' MOTHER
 Now it's no wonder that her name means "Beauty" Her looks have got no parallel
 Her daughters follow, seething with jealousy:
 VILLAGE LASS #1
 But behind that fair facade I'm afraid she's rather odd
 VILLAGE LASSES' MOTHER
 (greets Belle)
 Very different from the rest of us
 VILLAGE LASSES
 She's nothing like the rest of us Yes, different from the rest of us
 Belle slips through the crowd.
 VILLAGERS
 Is Belle
 A
 EXT. VILLAGE PROMONTORY - DAY
 11A
 Looking down on the village is GASTON, a dashingly handsome
 war hero clad in a dazzling gold breastplate. The only thing
 bigger than his muscles is his ego. Strapped on his saddle
 is a musket and the spoils of his hunt: rabbit, fox, and fowl. Riding beside him is Gaston's long-suffering aide-de-
 camp and devoted best friend LEFOU.
 Through his spyglass, Gaston spots Belle.
Gaston:「Look at her, LeFou. My future wife.
 Belle is the most beautiful girl in
 the village. That makes her the best.」

Gaston:「I know. Belle can be as argumentative as she is beautiful.」
LEFOU:「Exactly, who needs her, when you've
 got us!」
Gaston:「Yes, but ever since the war I've been
 missing something. And she's the only girl I've met who gives me that sense of...」

narrator:EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - DAY
 Gaston and LeFou ride through the village gates. Gaston
 motions toward Belle in the village square. Geese flock
 around her feet, seeming to follow her.
Gaston:「singing) Right from the moment when I met her, saw her I said she's gorgeous and I fell Here in town there's only she Who is beautiful as me So I'm making plans to woo and marry Belle」

narrator:BELLE
 BARMAID
 Good day.
 Mais oui!
 TOM
 HOUSEWIFE #1
 You call this bacon?
 What lovely flowers!
 CHEESEMAKER #2
 WOOD CARRIER
 Some cheese...
 ...Ten yards!
 BREAD BUYER
 GASTON
 ...One pound.
 `Scuse me!
 CHEESEMAKER #1
 GASTON
 I'll get the knife.
 Please let me through!
 JAM SELLER
 COBBLER
 This bread...
 Those fish...
 JAM SELLER
 COBBLER
 It's stale!
 They smell!
 BELLE
 GASTON There must be more than this
 Just watch -- I'm going to provincial life!
 make Belle my wife!
 The image swells to reveal the whole village, singing.
ALL:「Look there she goes a girl who's Strange but special A most peculiar mademoiselle It's a pity and a sin She doesn't quite fit in!」
narrator:VILLAGE LASSES But she really is a funny girl
 VILLAGE MEN A beauty but a funny girl
ALL:「She really is a funny girl that Belle!」
narrator:Slightly out of breath, Gaston finally catches up with Belle.
Gaston:「Good morning, Belle!
 Wonderful book you
 have there.」
BELLE:「You've read it?」

Gaston:「Well, not that one. But, you know.
 Books.
 (hands her the flowers) For your dinner table. Shall I join you this evening?
 11.」

narrator:BELLE
 Sorry, not tonight.
 GASTON
 Busy?
 BELLE
 No.
 A mortified smile and Belle is off.
 LeFou approaches.
 LEFOU
 So.
 Moving on?
Gaston:「No, LeFou. It's the ones who play
 hard to get that are always the
 sweetest prey.
 That's what makes Belle so appealing.
 She hasn't made a fool of herself just
 to gain my favor. What would you call
 that?」

narrator:EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - DAY (LATER)
 17
 Gaston shakes his head and laughs, absolutely smitten.
Gaston:「You are the wildest, most beautiful thing I've ever seen. No one deserves you, but at least I know our children will be beautiful.」
narrator:A reverse angle reveals Gaston was addressing his reflection
 in a shop window.
LEFOU:「O.S.)
 Am I catching you at a bad time?」
narrator:GASTON
 What is it, LeFou?
LEFOU:「A certain damsel is in distress.」
Gaston:「Oh well. It's hero time. (to his reflection)
 I'm not done with you yet.」
narrator:And he's off.
 LeFou steps up to the mirror.
 LEFOU
 Me neither.
 EXT. BELLE'S COTTAGE - DAY (LATER)
 19
 Gaston follows Belle back to her cottage.
 GASTON
 Belle! Heard you had a little trouble
 with the headmaster. He never liked
 me, either. Can I give you a little
 advice about the villagers, though?
 They're never going to trust the kind of change we're trying to bring.
 Pursuing her into her garden, he trampling cabbages.

BELLE:「All I wanted was to teach a child to
 read.」
Gaston:「The only children you should concern yourself with are... your own.」

BELLE:「I'm not ready to have children.」
Gaston:「Maybe you haven't met the right man.」
BELLE:「It's a small village, Gaston.
 I've
 met them all.」
Gaston:「Maybe you should take another look.
 Some of us have changed.」
narrator:She climbs the steps to her cottage door.
 Gaston follows
 close behind.
 BELLE
 Gaston, we could never make each other
 happy. No one can change that much.
 GASTON
 Belle, do you know what happens to
 spinsters in our village after their
 fathers die?
 Gaston motions to the street, where we find AGATHE, a
 spinster, late 30's, dirty and homeless, rattling her cup:
 "alms for the poor?"
Gaston:「They beg for scraps, like poor Agathe.
 This is our world, Belle. For simple
 folk like us, it doesn't get any better.」

GARDEROBE:「Come here, Froufrou. Come help mama!」
narrator:Froufrou tugs at the fabric, helping Garderobe complete the
 outfit -- which is garish and too too much, all wrong for
 Belle.
GARDEROBE:「Perfetta!」
narrator:Lumière and Cogsworth put on a game smile.
 LUMIÈRE
 Mm.
 Subtle. Understated.
 I love it!
 With a deep bow and a whistle for Froufrou, Lumière drags
 Cogsworth out. Plumette and Froufrou follow. Garderobe calls
 out after her beloved dog.
GARDEROBE:「Froufrou, send my love to the maestro!」
narrator:The door closes. Belle is alone. Garderobe instantly falls
 asleep with a big SNORE. Belle has one beat of... where the
 hell am I? She ducks down, then crawls out from underneath the enormous dress, which remains standing.
 Belle looks around the room with one thing in mind: escape. She quickly moves to the window. Opens it. She looks down
 at the 100 foot drop leading to the grounds.
 Belle turns back to the room, and gazes at the dress.
 An
 idea taking shape.
 EXT. COUNTRY INN - NIGHT
 43
 A LAMPLIGHTER is hard at work outside as we hear fiddle music
 coming from the inn.
 INT. COUNTRY INN - NIGHT
 44
 Amidst the animal heads, antlers, and drunken villagers, there is an even sadder sight -- GASTON. He drowns his sorrows in ale while LEFOU listens.
Gaston:「Picture it, LeFou -- a rustic cabin. My latest kill roasting on the fire. Adorable children running around us while my love rubs my tired feet. But
 what does Belle say? "I will never
 marry you, Gaston."」

Gaston:「A great hunter doesn't waste his time on rabbits.」
narrator:The lasses deflate. "Awww!" LeFou decides it's time to cheer up his best friend/boss. Thus begins "GASTON."
LEFOU:「Gosh it disturbs me to see you Gaston looking so down in the dumps Every guy here'd love to be you Gaston Even when taking your lumps There's no man in town as admired as you You're everyone's fa-vor-ite guy Everyone's awed and inspired by you And it's not very hard to see why」
narrator:LeFou gives a nod (and a large tip) to the FIDDLE PLAYER in the
 corner, who nods back, and begins to play...
LEFOU:「No one's slick as Gaston No one's quick as Gaston No one's neck's as incredibly thick as Gaston For there's no man in town half as manly Perfect, a pure paragon! You can ask any Tom, Dick or Stanley And they'll tell you whose team they prefer to be on!」
narrator:LeFou hops onto the bar, squeezing himself between TOM, DICK,
 and STANLEY.
 TOM/DICK/STANLEY Who plays darts like Gaston? Who breaks hearts like Gaston?

LEFOU:「Who's much more than the sum of his parts like Gaston?」
Gaston:「confidence growing)
 As a specimen, yes, I'm intimidating」
narrator:LeFou hails a BARMAID and buys everyone a round of drinks.
 The villagers raise their mugs and cheer.
 LEFOU/VILLAGERS My what a guy, that Gaston!
 Gaston stands, and clasps LeFou in gratitude...
Gaston:「I needed encouragement; thank you, LeFou 33.」

LEFOU:「Well, there's no one as easy to bolster as you!」
narrator:only to find himself in an uncomfortably tight hug.
LEFOU:「Too much?」
narrator:GASTON
 Yep.
 VILLAGERS
 No one fights like Gaston Douses lights like Gaston!
LEFOU:「In a wrestling match nobody bites like Gaston!」
narrator:LeFou moves his shirt up his arm to show an old wrestling wound - a nice teeth impression courtesy of Gaston. The villagers gasp.
 GASTON
 When I hunt, I sneak up with my quiver And beasts of the field say a prayer First I carefully aim for the liver Then I shoot from behind!
 Gaston leaps onto the bar, and is handed a huge blunderbuss,
 with which he mimes shooting LeFou.
LEFOU:「Is that fair?」
Gaston:「I don't care」
narrator:And Gaston fires the rifle into the ceiling!
 Plaster rains
 down.
VILLAGERS:「No one hits like Gaston Matches wits like Gaston」
LEFOU:「In a spitting match nobody spits like Gaston」
Gaston:「I'M ESPECIALLY GOOD AT EXPECTORATING!」

narrator:GASTON
 When I was a lad I ate four dozen eggs Ev'ry morning to help me get large
 On one shoulder, Gaston lifts a pretty VILLAGE GIRL.
 On the
 other, he lifts LeFou.
Gaston:「And now that I'm grown I eat five dozen eggs So I'm roughly the size of a barge!」
narrator:The crowd hollers. Gaston jumps on a long table. The table's
 height plus his massive frame make him seem 10 feet tall.
 He engages in a dance-break sword-fight with several VILLAGE
 MEN, besting them all, until he's perfectly positioned beneath
 a
 ceiling mural, mimicking it exactly: Gaston, saber raised,
 victorious in battle -- with LeFou swooning at his feet.
 LEFOU
 Who has brains like Gaston? Entertains like Gaston?
Gaston:「Who can make up these endless Refrains like Gaston?」
narrator:Gaston tromps on the table.
 He arrives at his WALL OF ANIMAL
 HEADS and ANTLERS.
Gaston:「I use antlers in all of my decorating!」

narrator:ALL
 Say it again - who's a man among men? And let's say it once more Who's that hero next door? Who's a super success? Don't you know? Can't you guess? Ask his fans and his five hangers-on There's just one guy in town Who's got all of it down...
LEFOU:「And his name's `G-A-S-T... ' Uh, I believe there's another `T' in there, it just occurred to me that I'm
 illiterate and I've never actually had to spell it out loud before... Gaston!」
narrator:The villagers cheer as Gaston returns to his seat.
 Gaston slaps
 LeFou on the shoulder, genuinely moved.
Gaston:「Ah LeFou, you're the best. How is it
 that no girl has snatched you up yet? 35.」

LEFOU:「I've been told I'm clingy, but I really
 don't get it...」
narrator:Just then, the door flies open to reveal a wild-eyed Maurice.
MAURICE:「Help! Somebody help me! We have to go... not a minute to lose...」
narrator:TAVERN KEEPER Whoa.
 Slow down, Maurice.
MAURICE:「He's got Belle... locked in a dungeon!」
narrator:TAVERN KEEPER Who's got her?
MAURICE:「A beast... a horrible monstrous beast!」
narrator:The patrons begin to laugh.
MAURICE:「My daughter's life is in danger, why do you laugh!? His castle is hidden in the woods. It's already winter there!」
JEAN:「Winter in June?」
narrator:CLOTHILDE
 Crazy old Maurice.
MAURICE:「The beast is real! Do you understand?!
 Will no one help me?!」
Gaston:「ever the opportunist) I'll help you, Maurice!」
LEFOU:「You will?」
narrator:The villagers murmur in surprise.
Gaston:「winks at LeFou) Everyone! Stop making fun of this man at once!」

Gaston:「Don't thank me, Maurice.
 Lead us to the beast.」

BELLE:「You have to help me... you have to stand...」
narrator:CUT TO:
 The beast is slumped across Philippe's saddle. As Belle takes
 the reins and begins the long walk back to the castle, we RISE into the sky, where we can see the border that separates the enchanted woods from the outside world, and...
 EXT. WOODS - NIGHT
 70
 WOLVES HOWL. Gaston's carriage moves through the scary woods, LeFou squeezed in back behind Gaston and Maurice.
MAURICE:「No! I'm sure this is the way! Do you
 hear those wolves? That means we're
 getting very close to the castle.」
Gaston:「Look, enough is enough.
 We have to turn
 back.」
MAURICE:「Stop!
 That's it!」
narrator:Maurice points up ahead to the WITHERED TREE that looks like an
 ELDERLY PERSON'S CANE -- THE TREE IS STANDING AGAIN, the tunnel of trees now hidden behind it. Maurice hops down from the
 wagon.
MAURICE:「That's the tree. I'm sure of it. Of
 course, it was downed by lightning at
 the time, but now it's been restored
 to an upright position, through some
 sort of... magic. Or other.」

LEFOU:「sotto to Gaston) You really want to marry into this family?」
MAURICE:「So that means the castle is definitely
 that way!」
narrator:An angry Gaston steps out and approaches Maurice.
Gaston:「I'm done playing this game of yours. Where is Belle?」

Gaston:「There are no such things as beasts, or
 talking teacups, or... magic! But there
 are wolves, frostbite, and starvation.」
narrator:LEFOU
 Deep breaths, Gaston.
 Deep breaths.
 GASTON
 So why don't we just turn around go back
 to Villeneuve? I'm sure Belle is at
 home, cooking up a lovely dinner...
 MAURICE
 If you think I've made all this up,
 then why did you offer to help?
Gaston:「Because I want to marry your daughter! Now let's go home.」
MAURICE:「Belle is not at home!
 She's with the --」
Gaston:「IF YOU SAY BEAST ONE MORE TIME, I WILL
 FEED YOU TO THE WOLVES!」
narrator:Gaston holds his fist to strike Maurice across the face. LeFou runs over to intervene.
LEFOU:「GASTON! STOP! Breathe. Think happy
 thoughts. Go back to the war. Blood,
 explosions, countless widows...」
narrator:GASTON
 Widows...
 LEFOU
 Yes, yes, that's it, that's it...
 LeFou's voice snaps Gaston out of his rage.
 He puts on that
 Gaston smile like a Halloween mask.

Gaston:「Please, forgive me, old bean. That's no
 way to talk to my future father-in-law,
 now is it?」

narrator:A
 EXT. REMOTE FOREST ROAD - NIGHT (LATER)
 70A
 Maurice is now tied to a tree. Gaston secures the knot and walks to the carriage. Darkness has come over Gaston.
Gaston:「If Maurice won't give me his blessing,
 then he is in my way. Once the wolves are finished with him, Belle will have no one to take care of her but me.」

BELLE:「Let's go home.」
narrator:She means the castle.
 The beast nods, takes her hand.
 EXT. COUNTRY INN - EVENING
 87
 Wind and rain dance in front of the inn.
 MUSIC and DRUNKEN
 LAUGHTER inside.
LEFOU:「Wow, this is some storm. At least
 we're not tied to a tree in the middle
 of nowhere, right? You know it's not
 too late, we could just go get him...」
narrator:Gaston doesn't react.
LEFOU:「It's just, every time I close my eyes,
 I picture Maurice stranded out there.
 And then when I open them, he's --」
narrator:INT. COUNTRY INN - EVENING
 88
 They enter and see MAURICE surrounded by Pere Robert and Jean
 the potter.
 LEFOU
 (excitedly)
 Maurice!
 LeFou realizes he shouldn't be happy and tamps down his
 smile. Maurice and Gaston lock eyes. Gaston quickly
 assesses the situation.
 TAVERN KEEPER
 Gaston, did you try to kill Maurice?
 Just when we think Gaston might run or fight or deny, he smiles
 warmly.
Gaston:「Oh, Maurice! Thank heavens. I've spent
 the last five days trying to find you.」

narrator:Suddenly, the villagers shift their gaze to Maurice.
MAURICE:「No! You tried to kill me!
 You left
 me for the wolves!」
Gaston:「Maurice, it's one thing to rave about your delusions. It's another to accuse me of attempted murder. 70.」

narrator:Gaston's argument lands.
 The gentle Maurice feels the room
 slipping away from him.
JEAN:「Maurice, do you have any proof of what
 you're saying?」
MAURICE:「Ask Agathe! She rescued me!」
narrator:Before Agathe can speak --
Gaston:「Agathe? You'd hang your accusation on the testimony of a filthy hag?
 (to Agathe) No offense, Agathe.」
narrator:Agathe raises an eyebrow - but says nothing.
MAURICE:「Monsieur LeFou! He was there.
 He saw it all.」
narrator:LEFOU
 Me?
Gaston:「You're right. Don't take my word for it.」
narrator:He puts his arm around LeFou and pulls him close.
Gaston:「LeFou, my dearest companion, did I,
 your oldest friend and most loyal
 compatriot, try to kill the father of
 the only woman I've ever loved?」

narrator:All eyes turn to LeFou, who is clearly torn.
 LEFOU
 It's a complicated question on a
 number of accounts, but... no. No, he
 did not.
 The crowd reacts. Maurice is crestfallen. Gaston has won. Maurice lunges at Gaston -- who catches his flying fist, easily
 subduing him.
Gaston:「Maurice, it pains me to say this, but you've become a danger to yourself and others. No wonder Belle ran away. You
 need help, sir. A place to heal your troubled mind. 71.」

narrator:Gaston signals to Tom, Dick, and Stanley -- and Maurice turns to see them block the exit. Gaston places his large hand on Maurice's shoulder -- and squeezes. Maurice winces.
Gaston:「Everything's going to be fine.」

THE BEAST:「I rage against the trials of love
 I curse the fading of the light
 Though she's already flown so far
 beyond my reach
 She's never out of sight
 Now I know she'll never leave me
 Even as she fades from view
 She will still torment me, be part of
 everything I do
 Wasting in my lonely tower
 Waiting by an open door
 I'll fool myself she'll walk right in
 And as the long long nights begin
 I'll think of all that might have been
 Waiting here for evermore」
narrator:The beast stands at the edge of the turret as Belle finally
 disappears through the castle gates.
 EXT. VILLAGE OF VILLENEUVE - SQUARE - NIGHT
 96
 A horse-drawn asylum wagon thunders into the square where Maurice is surrounded by taunting villagers. The eerie driver, MONSIEUR D'ARQUE, steps out as Tom, Dick and Stanley throw Maurice into his cage on wheels. Villagers approach the wagon like 18th century rubberneckers.
 Gaston leans into the wagon. The gathering crowd is just loud enough to mask a private plea to Maurice...
Gaston:「Have you ever seen the inside of a mad house, Maurice? You wouldn't last a week. Just give me your daughter's
 hand, and I'll set you free.」

narrator:MAURICE
 Never.
 Gaston clenches his jaw and locks the door with a CLANK.
Gaston:「Take him away!」

VILLAGERS:「Belle..." "Where did she come from?" "Is that Belle..." "Look at that dress..."」
narrator:Gaston stares, slack-jawed, unable to believe his eyes. We linger on the jealous village lasses, the puzzled Jean, the confused LeFou, the foul-tempered Clothilde, the bewildered Pere Robert, and in the shadows... Agathe.
 Belle fearlessly strides right in front of the wagon. The horses jump up, startled. Belle runs to the locked door.
MAURICE:「Belle?
 I thought I'd lost you!」
narrator:Belle sees her father injured on the floor of the wagon.
BELLE:「Open this door! He's hurt!」
narrator:Monsieur d'Arque climbs down to calm her.
 MONSIEUR D'ARQUE I'm afraid we can't do that, miss.
 But we'll take very good care of him.
BELLE:「My father's not crazy!
 Gaston... Tell him!」
Gaston:「Belle, you know how loyal I am to your family, but your father has been making some unbelievable claims.」
JEAN:「It's true, Belle. He's been raving about a beast in a castle.」
BELLE:「I have just come from the castle and
 there is a beast!」

Gaston:「We all admire your devotion to your father, but you'd say anything to free him. Your word is hardly proof.」

BELLE:「There is your proof!」
Gaston:「This is sorcery!」
narrator:Gaston snatches the mirror from Belle and holds it up to the villagers.
Gaston:「Look at this beast. Look at his fangs,
 his claws.」
narrator:The villagers recoil in fright.
BELLE:「No, don't be afraid.
 He is gentle and kind.」
Gaston:「The monster has put her under a spell!
 If I didn't know better, I'd say she even cared for him.」
BELLE:「He's not a monster, Gaston. You are.
 (appeals to everyone)
 The beast would never hurt anyone.」
Gaston:「I have heard of the effects of dark
 magic, but never seen it with my own
 eyes before! This is a threat to our
 very existence!」
narrator:Raucous cries of "Gaston Gaston Gaston!" rise.
 Gaston holds
 the mirror up.
Gaston:「(to the thugs)
 We can't have her running off to warn
 the beast. Lock her up too.」

narrator:Gaston hops onto the back of the wagon and addresses the
 crowd. The "MOB SONG" begins as we move through the
 frightened villagers --
Gaston:「That creature will curse us all if we don't stop him! Well, I say we KILL THE BEAST!」
narrator:TOM We're not safe until he's dead
 DICK He'll come stalking us at night
JEAN:「Set to sacrifice our children To his monstrous appetite!」
CLOTHILDE:「He'll wreak havoc on our village If we let him wander free!」
Gaston:「So it's time to take some action, boys It's time to follow me!」
narrator:Gaston grabs a TORCH from a villager and tosses it into a barrel of pitch. Flames rise to the sky.
Gaston:「Through the mist, through the wood Through the darkness and the shadows It's a nightmare but it's one exciting ride」
narrator:Gaston lights Clothilde's torch, then clasps the shoulder of
 Monsieur d'Arque, who watches helplessly as his asylum wagon
 horses are commandeered by the mob.

Gaston:「Say a prayer, then we're there At the drawbridge of a castle And there's something truly terrible inside It's a beast, he's got fangs razor sharp ones Massive paws, killer claws for the feast Hear him roar, see him foam But we're not coming home `Til he's dead, good and dead... KILL THE BEAST!」

MOB:「Light your torch, mount your horse!」
Gaston:「Screw your courage to the sticking place」

narrator:EXT. WOODS - NIGHT
 97
 Gaston and LeFou crash into the woods at a full gallop.
 GASTON
 Call it war
 Call it threat
 You can bet they all will follow
 For in times like this they'll do just
 as I say
 LeFou's doubts are growing:
LEFOU:「There's a beast Running wild there's no question But I fear The wrong monster's released」
MOB:「Sally forth, tally ho Grab your sword, grab your bow Praise the Lord and here we go!」
narrator:Gaston holds up the mirror.
Gaston:「Show me the castle!」

narrator:EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT
 108
 The battering ram smashes again.
MOB:「Kill the beast!
 Kill the beast!」
narrator:INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT
 109
 The castle staff has now vanished, their barricade dismantled. A series of bolts on the door slide open one by one, top to bottom. The door unlocking itself...
 EXT. TERRACE - CASTLE - NIGHT
 110
 The battering ram smashes the door one last time --
MOB:「Kill the beast!
 Kill the beast!」
narrator:The door swings open easily and the mob tumbles inside, to find:
 INT. FOYER - CASTLE - NIGHT
 111
 It's EMPTY. Met by eerie silence, Gaston and the mob cautiously enter. The door barely hangs on its hinges.
 Villagers hold up torches. The flickering light reveals FURNITURE. Chairs. A coat rack. A feather duster. A candelabra. A tea pot and teacup. A harpsichord.
LEFOU:「Are you not the least bit concerned that
 this castle might be haunted?」
Gaston:「Don't lose your nerve, LeFou.」

narrator:LUMIÈRE
 Watch your toes!
 In the chaos, we find Agathe, moving quietly through the villagers and up the stairs. What is she up to?
 As villagers pour out the doors, Lumière and Cogsworth meet
 at the base of the stairs.
LUMIÈRE:「Bon voyage! Safe trip home!」
narrator:COGSWORTH
 And stay out!
 EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - NIGHT
 127
 Belle rides Philippe towards the castle.
 She kicks his
 flanks and they double their speed.
 EXT. HIGHEST TURRET - CASTLE - NIGHT
 129
 Gaston steps slowly up onto the beast's turret. The beast
 senses his presence, turns. They lock eyes. Gaston cocks
 his pistol.
Gaston:「Hello, beast. I am Gaston.
 Belle sent me.」

narrator:INT. TURRET STAIRCASE - CASTLE - NIGHT
 130
 Belle races up the stairs to the turret.
 EXT. HIGHEST TURRET - CASTLE - NIGHT
 131
 With no hope left, the beast turns away from Gaston, whose
 finger tightens on the trigger.
 GASTON
 Were you in love with her? Did you
 honestly think she'd want you?
 He fires.
 The beast drops over the edge.
 On the turret below, his claws make contact with the slanted rooftop and break his fall. He hugs the rooftop, heaving.
 Gaston looks down over the edge of the turret. He pulls his
 crossbow and reaches back over his shoulder to draw an arrow
 from his quiver -- but there's nothing there.
 Gaston spins to see Belle, and his arrows gripped in her
 hands.
Gaston:「Belle?
 92.」

narrator:BELLE
 Where is he?!
 With that, Belle snaps Gaston's arrows over her knee, and
 tosses them away. Gaston grabs her arm.
Gaston:「When we return to the village, you will marry me, and the beast's head will hang on our wall!」
BELLE:「NEVER.」
narrator:She pulls away -- and uses this pivot to grab the barrel of Gaston's pistol. They struggle.
 With Gaston on the back foot for a split second, Belle yanks the
 pistol hard. Gaston, not letting go, swings with it, and seeking balance on a loose stone, he drops off the side of the turret!
 Gaston's reflexes are quick. He lets go of the pistol, grabbing
 a gargoyle and swinging himself down through a window of the turret. He lands on the spiral staircase.
 Gaston's pistol, in the meantime, clatters down, coming to rest
 on the landing of a stone footbridge below.
 EXT. CASTLE - VARIOUS TURRETS - NIGHT
 132
 Wounded, the beast climbs around the lower turret. All around
 him, turrets quaver and crack. The castle is imploding.
Gaston:「O.S.)
 I'm coming for you, beast!」

THE BEAST:「Belle?」
narrator:And he spots her.
THE BEAST:「(roars)
 BELLE! You came back!」
narrator:BELLE
 I tried to stop them!
 THE BEAST
 Stay there! I'm coming!
 Gaston drops onto the walkway lined with gargoyles, landing
 directly between the beast and Belle. He sneers -- the upper
 hand is still his. His eyes search for a weapon... he grabs
 a stone spire, and breaks it off.
 With superhuman agility, the beast makes a giant leap from the far parapet back toward the central turrets. Back toward Belle.
 Belle descends the stairs, finally reaching the beast's lair.
 The beast lands on the gargoyle walk and Gaston jumps out, bringing his club cracking down on the beast's back. The beast roars in pain. But he pushes past Gaston.
 With Gaston landing blow after blow on the beast's back, the beast staggers down a set of stairs onto the landing of a stone footbridge (where Gaston's pistol came to rest earlier).
 BELLE
 Stop!
 Gaston, no!
 Belle watches the beast lumbering across the footbridge -- which crumbles under each mighty footfall.
 The beast reaches the cupola on the far side, directly parallel to the lair. One giant leap stands between him and
 Belle...
 Gaston lifts the club to deliver the death blow -- when the beast snatches it. He yanks the club away and hurls it against a far wall.
 With a snarl, the beast's paw is around Gaston's throat. He lifts Gaston and swings him out over the edge of the landing.
Gaston:「snivelling) No. Don't let me go. Please. Don't hurt me, beast. I'll do anything.」
