narrator:the prisoner who was being dragged is taken down a hatch-like door in the ground, he also screams]
 rocky shoreline, lit with torches]
 men toss caskets into the sea]
 numerous caskets are floating out to sea, vertical streaks in the distant clouds are seen]
 a crow lands on one casket, begins pecking at the top]
 sudden gunblast from inside the casket blows the crow away, along with much wood]
 hand holding flintlock pistol emerges, pans about, points it at audience for a moment]
 Jack breaks out of the top of the casket, puts his captain's hat on]
Jack Sparrow:「Sorry, mate.」

narrator:Jack breaks the skeleton's leg off]
Jack Sparrow:「Mind if we make a little side trip? I didn't think so.」

narrator:BLACK PEARL
 Jack arrives at the Black Pearl in his coffin rowboat]
 Gibbs holds out his hand to help Jack aboard, Jack puts the skeleton leg in Gibbs' hand]
 Cotton drapes a coat onto Jack's back]
GIBBS:「Not *quite* according to plan.」
Jack Sparrow:「Complications arose, ensued, were overcome.」

Jack Sparrow:「Mm-hmm!」

Jack Sparrow:「Shiny?」
GIBBS:「Aye, shiny.」
Jack Sparrow:「Is that how you're all feeling, then? Perhaps dear old Jack is not serving your best interests as captain?」
COTTON'S PARROT:「Awk! Walk the plank!」
narrator:Jack grabs his pistol and points it at the bird]
Jack Sparrow:「What did the bird say?」

Jack Sparrow:「Ohhh!」
narrator:Jack attempts to shoot the monkey with his pistol, his pistol misfires]
 Jack grabs a pistol from another crewman and blasts the monkey while it's on the deck]
 the monkey drops the cloth, but is unharmed, and scurries into the rigging]
GIBBS:「Know that don't do no good.」
Jack Sparrow:「It does me.」
narrator:Marty picks up the cloth that the monkey dropped]
MARTY:「It's a key!」
Jack Sparrow:「No! Much more better. It is a *drawing* of a key.」
narrator:Jack holds up the cloth, the crew crowd forward]
 Among the crew: Chinese man, black man with a black beard, white bearded man with large black hat]
Jack Sparrow:「Gentlemen, what do keys do?」
narrator:LEECH Keys... unlock... *things*?
GIBBS:「And whatever this key unlocks, *inside* there's something valuable. So, we're setting out to find whatever this key unlocks!」

Jack Sparrow:「No! If we don't have the key, we can't open whatever it is we don't have that it unlocks. So what purpose would be served in finding whatever need be unlocked, which we don't have, without first having found the key what unlocks it?」
GIBBS:「So - We're going after this key!」
Jack Sparrow:「You're not making any sense at all. Any more questions?」
MARTY:「So... Do we have a heading?」
Jack Sparrow:「Hah! A heading. Set sail in a... mmm... a general... in *that* way - direction.」

GIBBS:「Cap'n?」
Jack Sparrow:「Come on, snap to and make sail, you know how this works. Come on, ?oy/?quick, ?oy/?quick, hey!」

narrator:BLACK PEARL
 Jack is using calipers on a map, using his left hand, a "P" brand mark is seen on his right arm]
 an hourglass is in the background, Jack taps the Compass]
 Jack looks in his bottle, turns the bottle upside-down, only a few drops spill out]
Jack Sparrow:「Why is the rum always gone?」
narrator:Jack rises to his feet, staggers]
 Jack picks up his hat off the top of a globe]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh! *That's* why.」

Jack Sparrow:「As you were, gents.」
narrator:Jack goes downstairs to the hold, an animal bleats, Jack unlocks the door, goes in]
 Jack sees eerie filter feeder creatures festooning a beam of wood]
 Jack spots a rack of bottles, with the bottles stored sideways like in a wine rack]
Jack Sparrow:「Ah!」
narrator:Jack pulls a sideways bottle from the rack]
 Jack pours sand out of the bottle]
 Jack drops bottle of rum in fright, the bottle breaks on the floor]
 Jack walks over to see who spoke]
Jack Sparrow:「Bootstrap. Bill Turner.」
narrator:Bootstrap looks up from where he's sitting on a barrel, crabs scuttle across his face]
Jack Sparrow:「Is this a dream?
 I thought not. If it were, there'd be rum.」
narrator:Bootstrap immediately hands Jack a bottle of rum]
 Jack pries the bottle from Bootstrap's hand with a crackling sound]
Jack Sparrow:「I had some help retrieving the Pearl, by the way.」
narrator:Jack tinks the lip of the bottle with his fingers, then blows across the top of the bottle]
Jack Sparrow:「Your son.」
narrator:Jack takes a drink from the bottle]

Jack Sparrow:「And to what do I owe the pleasure of your carbuncle?
 Who?
 Ah. So it's you, then. He shanghaied you into service, eh?」
narrator:a small hermit crab scuttles by Bootstrap, on top of the barrel where Bootstrap sits]
 Bootstrap grabs the hermit crab, pops it into his mouth, and crunches on it]
 Jack moves his mouth, jaw, and tongue around in revulsion while watching]
 Jack hands the bottle back to Bootstrap]
Jack Sparrow:「It's funny what a man will do to forestall his final judgment -」
narrator:Jack starts to walk off, but Bootstrap stands up at the same time and intercepts Jack, blocking him]
Jack Sparrow:「Technic -
 Yes, but the Flying Dutchman already *has* a captain, so there's re -
 Any idea when Jones might release said terrible beastie?」

narrator:BLACK PEARL: ON DECK
 Jack runs across a wooden deck that has a shallow covering of water]
Jack Sparrow:「On deck all hands! Make fast the bunt gasket! On deck! Scurry! ?Scurry-on/?Marty, I want movement!
 I want movement!*」
GIBBS:「Lift the skin up!」
Jack Sparrow:「All on deck! Run! And keep running! Run as if the devil himself and itself is upon us!」
GIBBS:「Do we have a heading?」
Jack Sparrow:「Ah! Ooh! Run! Land.」
narrator:Jack rises from where he was ducked behind the base of the mast, sees Gibbs again]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh! Euh!」
GIBBS:「Which port?」
Jack Sparrow:「Didn't say port. I said land. Any land.」

Jack Sparrow:「Agh!」
narrator:the monkey snarls at Jack, Jack snarls back at the monkey, in imitation]
 the monkey throws Jack's hat overboard
GIBBS:「Jack's hat! Bring 'er about!」
Jack Sparrow:「No no! Leave it! Run!」

narrator:Jack stands stiffly in the shadows under some steps, between two lighted windows]
 Gibbs walks up to Jack]
GIBBS:「Jack?」
Jack Sparrow:「Shhh!」
GIBBS:「For the love of mother and child, Jack, what's coming after us?」
Jack Sparrow:「Nothing.」

narrator:Jack pushes one finger into Will's shoulder, as if testing how much meat Will has on him]
WILL TURNER:「Jack! It's me! Will Turner!」
Jack Sparrow:「Wa-say kohn.」
narrator:Een dah-lah. Eeseepi.
CANNIBAL CROWD:「Eeseepi.」
WILL TURNER:「Tell 'em to let me down.」
Jack Sparrow:「Kay-lay lam. Lam piki-piki. Lam eensy weensy. Lam say-say... eunuchy. Snip-snip.」

CANNIBAL CROWD:「Ahhh... eunuchy!」
narrator:Jack begins to walk away, as if disinterested, his Compass hangs from his waist]
WILL TURNER:「Jack! The Compass! That's all I need, Elizabeth is in danger. We were arrested for trying to help *you*. She faces the gallows!」
narrator:Jack halts, pauses, turns around and casually walks back]
Jack Sparrow:「Say-say lam shoop-shoop sha smalay-lama shoo-koo. Savvy? Ball licky-licky.」

Jack Sparrow:「Save me!」

narrator:both laugh, the dog reaches shore and looks back at them]
RAGETTI:「Stupid mongrel!」
narrator:the dog on shore shakes off water, looks back at them, still holding keys in its mouth]
 their boat capsizes in a wave, they wade ashore]
CANNIBAL ISLAND:「beach」
narrator:
PINTEL:「Come on! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Ha-ha-ha-ha... ###
 It's ours for the taking!」
RAGETTI:「Tide's comin', that should help. Well, salvagin' is saving, in a manner of speaking.」
PINTEL:「There's the truth of *it*! ###」
narrator:cannibal drums sound]
RAGETTI:「Suppose we be'er... save it as soon as we can. What with our souls in such a vulnerable state, and all.」
PINTEL:「Amen to that.」
narrator:the dog barks]
CANNIBAL ISLAND:「throne」
narrator:cannibal drums are pounding]
 Jack is on the throne, a cannibal hands Jack a necklace of human toes]
Jack Sparrow:「Thank you.」

WILL TURNER:「Well, we can't just sit here and wait then, can we?」
CANNIBAL ISLAND:「throne」
narrator:cannibal drums are pounding]
Jack Sparrow:「No/?Oup! No no! ?Oy!/?Wait! No no! More wood! Big fire! *Big* fire! I am chief! Want big fire! Come on!
 Oy!/?Boy! Maboogie snickel-snickel. Tout de suite! Come on! More wood!」

narrator:Jack goes back in, picks up a can of paprika with the EITC logo on the bottom]
 Jack walks outside the hut, the entire tribe is waiting silently outside, staring at him]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh bugger.」

Jack Sparrow:「Little seasoning. Eh?」
narrator:Jack is now tied up to a bamboo pole and hanging face down over a pile of wood]
 cannibals are dancing wildly]
Jack Sparrow:「Well done.」

narrator:Ahhh! Fye-fye!
CANNIBAL CROWD:「Ahhh! Fye-fye!」
narrator:the cannibal from the bridge arrives to tell the tribe of the men in cages escaping]
 Da ?latazo! ?Da ?litozo! Hay la paka say-say.
 the crowd stands silently, not knowing whether to stay or to chase the escapees]
Jack Sparrow:「Well, go on! Go get them! Hay ala!」

narrator:in their haste one cannibal drops a lighted torch need the pile of wood under Jack]
Jack Sparrow:「No! No no! Oy! No no!」
narrator:the edges of the wood begin to catch fire]
Jack Sparrow:「Not good.」

narrator:CANNIBAL WOMAN ?A-geev-nee. Uh-boogie?
 the two cannibal women walk off, disinterested]
Jack Sparrow:「Bugger.」

GIBBS:「Excellent work! Work's half done!」
PINTEL:「We done it for you! Knowin' you'd be comin' back for us.」
GIBBS:「Make/?Making ?ready ?to?sail/?cast-off ###, boy.」
WILL TURNER:「What about Jack? I won't leave without him.」
Jack Sparrow:「Hey!」
narrator:Jack appears at a distance, running down the beach toward the crew and ship]
 a crowd of cannibals suddenly run down on the beach behind Jack, pursuing him]
WILL TURNER:「Time to go.」
GIBBS:「Cast off those lines!*」
narrator:Jack screams while running down the beach]
 Make ready to cast off! ###!
 the dog is down the beach with Jack, barking at him]
Jack Sparrow:「Good doggie! ?Doggie.」

Jack Sparrow:「Alas*, my children! This is the day you shall always remember as the day that you almost -」
narrator:big wave splashes Jack from behind]
Jack Sparrow:「Captain Jack... Sparrow.」

Jack Sparrow:「Yes to the first, yes to the second, but only insofar as we keep to the shallows as much as possible.」
GIBBS:「Uh, that seems a bit contradictory, Captain.」
Jack Sparrow:「I have every faith in your reconciliatory navigational skills, Master Gibbs, now where is that monkey? I want to shoot *something*.」
narrator:the monkey screams, drops Ragetti's eye, Ragetti grabs his eye, spits on it, rubs the spit around on it]
 the monkey chatters and climbs into the rigging]
 Jack is ready to shoot the monkey with his pistol]
WILL TURNER:「Jack.」
Jack Sparrow:「Ah.」
WILL TURNER:「Elizabeth is in danger.」
Jack Sparrow:「Have you considered keeping a more watchful eye on 'er? Maybe just lock her up somewhere.」

WILL TURNER:「She *is* locked up, in a prison, bound to hang for helping *you*!」
Jack Sparrow:「There comes a time when one must take responsibility for one's mistakes.」

narrator:Will pulls a sword from the waistband of a pirate who is turned around, points it at Jack]
WILL TURNER:「I need that Compass of yours, Jack. I must trade it for her freedom.」
narrator:Jack pushes Will's sword aside]
Jack Sparrow:「Mister Gibbs!」
GIBBS:「Cap'n.」
Jack Sparrow:「We have a need to travel upriver.」
GIBBS:「By need, d'you mean a... trifling need, ?uh/?a... fleeting, as in say in a passing fancy?」
Jack Sparrow:「No, a... resolute and unyielding need.」

WILL TURNER:「What we need to do is make sail for Port Royal with all haste.」
Jack Sparrow:「William... I shall trade you the Compass, if you will help me... to find *this*.」

WILL TURNER:「You want me to find this?」
Jack Sparrow:「No. *You* want you to find this. Because the finding this finds you incapacitorially finding and/or locating and your discovering the detecting of a way to save your ?dolly/?dotty belle ol'... what's-her-face. Savvy?」

Jack Sparrow:「How much do you know about Davy Jones?」

WILL TURNER:「Not much.」
Jack Sparrow:「Yeah, it's gonna save Elizabeth.」

narrator:the iguana eats a firefly with a quick slurping sound]
 people are occasionally seen standing quietly in the darkness among the trees]
Jack Sparrow:「No worries, mates. Tia Dalma and I go way back. Thick as thieves. Nigh inseparable we are. Were. Have been. Before.」

GIBBS:「I'll watch your back.」
Jack Sparrow:「It's me front I'm worried about. Mind the boat.」

narrator:near the inside of the shack door hangs a live snake, moving slowly]
 Tia is sitting at a table, looks up from her crab claws, sees Jack in the doorway]
TIA DALMA:「Jack Sparrow!」
Jack Sparrow:「Tia Dalma!」
TIA DALMA:「I always know de wind was goin' blow you back to me one day.」
narrator:Tia sees Will standing in the doorway, goes up to him]
TIA DALMA:「You. You have a touch of... destiny about *you*, William Turner.」
WILL TURNER:「You know me?」
TIA DALMA:「You want to know *me*.」
Jack Sparrow:「There'll be no knowing here. We've come for help and we're not leaving without it.
 I thought *I* knew you.」
TIA DALMA:「Not so well as I had hoped. Come.」
Jack Sparrow:「Come.」
TIA DALMA:「What... service... may I do you? Hmmm? You know I demand payment.」
Jack Sparrow:「I brought payment.」

Jack Sparrow:「Look!」
narrator:Jack cocks his pistol, shoots the monkey, the bullet has no effect, but the monkey chatters in fright]
Jack Sparrow:「An undead monkey! Top that!」
narrator:Tia lifts the cage door, the monkey scampers off]
GIBBS:「No! You've no idea how long it took us to catch that.」
TIA DALMA:「The payment is fair.」
Jack Sparrow:「We're looking for this. And what it goes to.」
TIA DALMA:「The Compass you bartered from me. It cannot lead you to dis?」
Jack Sparrow:「Maybe. Why?」

WILL TURNER:「What vexes all men?」
TIA DALMA:「What, indeed.」
GIBBS:「The sea?」
PINTEL:「Sums!」
RAGETTI:「Dichotomy of good and evil.」
Jack Sparrow:「A *woman*.」
TIA DALMA:「A wo-*man*. He fell in love.」
GIBBS:「No-no-no-no, I heard it was the *sea* he fell in love with.」
TIA DALMA:「Same story, different versions, and all are true. See, it was a *woman*, as changing, and harsh, and untamable as the sea. Him never stopped loving her. But the pain it cause 'im was too much to live wid. But not enough to cause him to die.」
WILL TURNER:「What... exactly did he put into the chest?」
TIA DALMA:「Him heart.」
RAGETTI:「Literally, or figuratively?」
PINTEL:「He couldn't li'erally put his heart in a chest! Could he?」

TIA DALMA:「It was not wort' feeling what... small fleeting joy life brings, and so... he carved out him heart, lock it away in a chest, and hide de chest from de world. De keys, he keep wid him at all times.」
WILL TURNER:「You knew this.」
Jack Sparrow:「I did not. I didn't know where the key was. But now we do. So all that's left is to climb aboard the Flying Dutchman, grab the key, you go back to Port Royal and save your bonnie lass, hey!」
TIA DALMA:「Let me see your hand.」
narrator:Jack shows his right hand is untouched, but Tia unwraps the bandage on his left hand]
 the black spot on Jack's left hand is revealed]
GIBBS:「Uhhh! The black spot!」
narrator:Gibbs quickly wipes his hands on his chest, spins around once to the left, and spits]
 Black spot!
 Black spot!
 Pintel and Ragetti copy Gibbs' ritual, in synchrony]
Jack Sparrow:「My eyesight's as good as ever, just so you know.」

narrator:Tia hands Jack a jar of dirt]
Jack Sparrow:「Dirt. This is a jar of dirt.」
TIA DALMA:「Yes?」
Jack Sparrow:「Is the... jar of dirt going to help?」

Jack Sparrow:「No.」

WILL TURNER:「That's the Flying Dutchman? She doesn't look like much.」
Jack Sparrow:「Neither do you. Do *not* underestimate her.」
narrator:Jack gives Gibbs a meaningful glance, elbows Gibbs]
GIBBS:「Must've run afoul of the reef.」
Jack Sparrow:「So what's your plan, then?」
WILL TURNER:「I row over, search the ship until I find your bloody key.」
Jack Sparrow:「And if there are crewmen?」
WILL TURNER:「I cut down anyone in my path.」
Jack Sparrow:「I like it. Simple, easy to remember.」

RAGETTI:「Your chariot awaits you, sire! Ha, ha-ha-ha, ha-ha!」
Jack Sparrow:「Hey! If you *do* happen to get captured, just say Jack Sparrow sent you to settle his debt! Might save your life!」
RAGETTI:「Bon voyage! Ha-ha-ha!」
Jack Sparrow:「Douse the lamps.」

narrator:Will engages in a swordfight against several invaders]
 Will dips his sword in oil, causing it to flame, and waves it at the men surrounding him]
WILL TURNER:「Get back! Back!」
narrator:Will slices open the stomach of one of the invaders, fish spill out of it onto the deck]
 Will battles the invading crewmembers, but one of them knocks Will unconscious]
 Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha.
 SCUTTLED SHIP after attack
 the prisoners of the scuttled ship cower in fear, lined up, sitting in a row on deck along the railing]
 Jack is at the end of the row of five survivors total, on the right-side when facing the survivors]
 Davy Jones stomps aboard with his peg leg, underwater view of his departing feet]
 Maccus is on deck, turned so that his back is shown, showing lobster legs on his back]
MACCUS:「Five men still alive. The rest have moved on.」
narrator:Jones pauses to clench his left hand, which is a large lobster claw]
 Jones casually lights a pipe in front of one of the cowering crewmen]
DAVY JONES:「Do you fear death? Do you fear that dark abyss? All your deeds laid bare. All your sins punished. I can offer you... an escape-uh.」
narrator:CHAPLAIN Don't listen to him!
 Jones walks over to the chaplain, takes the chaplain's head in his claw]
DAVY JONES:「Do you not fear death?」
narrator:CHAPLAIN I'll take my chances, Sir.
DAVY JONES:「To the depths.」
narrator:the chaplain's throat is slit, two crewmembers throw his body overboard]
 Ah, ha-ha-ha...!
 unidentified crewman] Cold blooded - !
DAVY JONES:「Life is cruel. Why should the afterlife be any *different*? I offer you a choice. Join my crew, and postpone the judgment. One hundred years before the mast. Will ye serve?」
narrator:HELMSMAN I - I will, serve.
DAVY JONES:「Grand.」
narrator:Jones looks pleased, then sees Will at the end of the line of people]
 Jones stomps over to Will]
DAVY JONES:「You* are neither dead nor dying. What is your purpose here?」
WILL TURNER:「Jack Sparrow sent me to settle his debt.」
DAVY JONES:「What is your purpose here?」
WILL TURNER:「Jack Sparrow. He sent me to settle his debt.」
DAVY JONES:「Huh! Did he, now? I'm sorely tempted to accept that offer.」
narrator:through a spyglass, Jack sees Jones turn to look directly at him]
 Black Pearl
 suddenly Jones is standing aboard the Black Pearl, directly in front of Jack and his spyglass]
 Cotton and Gibbs have knives to their throats from other Flying Dutchman crewmembers who teleported over]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh.」

DAVY JONES:「You have a debt to pay. You've been captain of the Black Pearl for thirteen years. *That* was our agreement.」
Jack Sparrow:「Technically, I was only captain for two years, then I was viciously mutinied upon.」
DAVY JONES:「Then you were a poor captain, but a *captain* nonetheless! Have you not introduced yourself all these years as *Captain* Jack Sparrow?」
Jack Sparrow:「You have my payment. One soul to serve on your ship is already over there.」

DAVY JONES:「One soul is not equal to another.」
Jack Sparrow:「Aha! So we've established my proposal is sound in principle, now we're just haggling over price.」
DAVY JONES:「Price? Pttt!」
Jack Sparrow:「Just how many souls do you think my soul is worth?」
DAVY JONES:「One hundred souls, three days-uh.」
Jack Sparrow:「You're a diamond, mate. Send me back the boy, I'll get started right off.」

narrator:Maccus blocks Jack from exiting]
DAVY JONES:「I keep the boy. A good-faith payment. That leaves you only ninety-nine more to go. Ha ha! Ha ha! Ha ha!」
Jack Sparrow:「Have you not met Will Turner? He's noble, heroic, *terrific* soprano. Worth at least four... maybe three and a half. And did I happen to mention... he's in love. With a girl. Due to be married. Betrothed. Dividing him from her and her from him... would only be half as cruel as actually allowing them be joined in holy matrimony. Aye?」
DAVY JONES:「I keep the boy. Ninety-nine souls-uh. But I wonder, Sparrow, can you live with this? Can you condemn an innocent man - a friend-uh - to a lifetime of servitude, in your name while you roam free?」
Jack Sparrow:「Yep! I'm good with it. Should we seal it in blood? I mean... mm-mm - ink?」

narrator:Jones grabs Jack's hand, resulting in a squishy sound]
Jack Sparrow:「Uh!」
DAVY JONES:「Three days. Three days.」
narrator:Pintel whimpers, with a knife held to his neck from a crewmember of Jones' ship]
 Jack looks at his hand, it's covered with slime, but the black spot disappears under the effect of the slime]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh, Mr. Gibbs.」
GIBBS:「Aye.」
Jack Sparrow:「Uh, I feel sullied and unusual.」
GIBBS:「And how do you intend to harvest these ninety-nine souls in three days?」
Jack Sparrow:「Fortunately, he was mum as the condition in which these souls need be.」
GIBBS:「Ah... Tortuga!」
Jack Sparrow:「Tortuga.」

GIBBS:「You'll do. Make your mark. Next!」
narrator:JILTED MAN My wife ran off with my dog. And I'm drunk for a month. And I don't give a ass rat's if I live or die.
GIBBS:「Perfect! Next!」
narrator:ONE-ARMED MAN Me have one arm, 'n' a bum leg.
GIBBS:「It's the crow's nest for you.」
narrator:Jack is sitting alongside a wall, within earshot of Gibbs' table, trying to make his Compass work]
Jack Sparrow:「I know what I want.」

narrator:ROMANTIC MAN Thanks very much.
Jack Sparrow:「How we going?」

GIBBS:「Lord. You didn't try to sail through it?」
NORRINGTON:「So do I make your crew, or not? You haven't said where you're going. Somewhere *nice*!」
narrator:unidentified woman] Oh!
 the music stops, everyone stares at the altercation]
 Jack grabs a branch from a vase, carries it in front of his face, attempts to walk out unseen]
NORRINGTON:「So am I *worthy* to serve under Captain Jack Sparrow?」
narrator:Norrington spots Jack sneaking off behind him, points a pistol at Jack]
NORRINGTON:「Or should I just kill you now?」
narrator:Jack ducks back and forth behind both sides of a large post, as Norrington points his pistol at Jack]
Jack Sparrow:「You're hired.」
NORRINGTON:「Sorry. Old habits and all that.」

narrator:unidentifed man, to Norrington] Easy, sonny!
 someone deflects Norrington's pistol upwards as it fires]
 the ball richochets off the chandelier, breaking a man's bottle as he's drinking from it]
 the man whose bottle broke slugs a man next to him]
 the music starts back up as a brawl ensues]
 one man swings from chandelier, women fight, bottles are thrown against the wall, etc.]
Jack Sparrow:「Time to go?」
GIBBS:「Aye!」
narrator:a swordfight is going on]
 someone throws a bottle against the wall above the stairs, Jack ducks as it smashes above his head]
 Jack makes his way upstairs, trading hats a few times along the way]
Jack Sparrow:「Thanks, mate.」
narrator:Jack slaps him on the shoulder, the man falls backwards off the balcony]
 Jack halts to let two men carrying another man proceed towards the edge of the balcony]
Jack Sparrow:「Carry on.」

narrator:Jack and Gibbs are walking together, Elizabeth approaches from behind, still dressed as a man]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Captain Sparrow!」
Jack Sparrow:「Come to join me crew, lad? Welcome aboard.」

ELIZABETH SWANN:「I'm here to find the man I love.」
Jack Sparrow:「I'm deeply flattered, son, but my first and only love is the sea.」

Jack Sparrow:「Elizabeth. Hide the rum.」
narrator:Gibbs takes the bottle that Jack hands to him, and walks up the boarding plank in the background]
Jack Sparrow:「You know, these clothes do not flatter you at all. It should be a dress or nothing. I happen to have no dress in my cabin.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Jack. I know Will came to find you. Where is he?」
Jack Sparrow:「Darling, I am truly unhappy to have to tell you this but... through an unfortunate and *entirely* unforeseeable series of circumstances that have nothing whatsoever to do with me, poor William has been press-ganged into Davy Jones' crew.」

ELIZABETH SWANN:「Davy Jones?」
narrator:Norrington vomits over the side, then spits]
NORRINGTON:「Oh, please. The captain of the Flying Dutchman.」
Jack Sparrow:「You look bloody awful. What are you doing here?」
NORRINGTON:「You *hired* me. I can't help it if your standards are lax.」
Jack Sparrow:「You *smell* funny.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Jack. All I want is to find Will.」
Jack Sparrow:「Are you certain? Is that what you really want most?」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Course.」
Jack Sparrow:「Because I would think, you'd want to find a way to *save* Will the most.」

ELIZABETH SWANN:「And you have a way of doing that?」
Jack Sparrow:「Well, there is a chest...」
NORRINGTON:「Oh, dear.」
Jack Sparrow:「A chest of unknown size and origin.」

narrator:Pintel &amp; Ragetti walk by, together carrying a crate of bottles, and overhearing the conversation]
PINTEL:「What contains the still-beating heart o' Davy Jones.」
RAGETTI:「Unh-unh... unh-unh... unh-unh...」
Jack Sparrow:「And whoever possesses that chest possesses the leverage to command Jones to do whatever it is he or she wants, including... saving brave William from his grim fate.」

ELIZABETH SWANN:「How do we find it?」
Jack Sparrow:「With this. My Compass... is unique.」

NORRINGTON:「Unique" here having the meaning of broken.」
Jack Sparrow:「True enough. This Compass does not point north.」
narrator:Norrington vomits over the side]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Where does it point?」
Jack Sparrow:「It points to the thing you want most in this world.」

Jack Sparrow:「Every word, love. And what you want most in this world is to find the chest of Davy Jones, is it not?」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「To save Will?」
Jack Sparrow:「By finding the chest of Davy Jones.」

narrator:Jack hands the compass to Elizabeth, then draws away quickly so as not to influence the compass]
 Elizabeth consults the compass, for her the dial clearly points in a specific direction]
 Jack slowly rises up to peer at the face of the compass]
Jack Sparrow:「Mister Gibbs!」
GIBBS:「Cap'n.」
Jack Sparrow:「We have our heading.」
GIBBS:「Finally! Cast off those lines, weigh anchor, and prow that canvas!」
Jack Sparrow:「Miss Swann.」

Jack Sparrow:「Agh.」
GIBBS:「Will was working for Beckett, and never said a word.」
Jack Sparrow:「Agh.」
GIBBS:「Beckett wants the Compass. Only one reason for that.」
Jack Sparrow:「Of course. He wants the chest.」

GIBBS:「If the company controls the chest, they controls the sea.」
Jack Sparrow:「A truly discomforting notion, love.」

Jack Sparrow:「Might I inquire how as to how you came by these?」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Persuasion.」
Jack Sparrow:「Friendly?」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Decidedly not.」
Jack Sparrow:「Will strikes a deal for these and upholds it with honor. Yet you're the one standing here with the prize. Full pardon, commission as a privateer on behalf of England and the East India Trading Company. As if I could be bought for such a low price.」

Jack Sparrow:「No. Persuade me.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「You do know Will taught me how handle a sword.」
Jack Sparrow:「As I said... Persuade me.」

narrator:Jack walks over to her, holding a bottle of rum]
Jack Sparrow:「My tremendous intuitive sense of the female creature informs me that you are troubled.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「I just thought I'd be married by now. I'm so ready to be married.」
narrator:Jack offers Elizabeth a drink from his bottle]
Jack Sparrow:「You know... Lizzy... I *am*... captain of a ship. And *being* captain of a ship, I could in fact perform a... marriage. Right here. Right on this deck. Right... *now*!」
narrator:Elizabeth recoils at Jack's breath on the word "now"]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「No, thank you.」
Jack Sparrow:「Why not? We *are* very much alike, you and I. I and you. Us.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Oh. Except for a sense of honor, and decency and-and a moral center. And personal hygiene.」
narrator:Jack smells his armpits]
Jack Sparrow:「Trifles. You *will* come over to my side, I know it.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「You seem very certain.」

Jack Sparrow:「One word love: curiosity. You long for freedom. You long to do what you want to do because you want it. To act on selfish impulse. You want to see what it's like. One day, you won't be able to resist.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Why doesn't your Compass work?」
Jack Sparrow:「Uh my Compass works fine.」

Jack Sparrow:「I *love* those moments. I like to wave at them as they pass by.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「You'll have the chance to do something... something courageous. And when you do, you'll discover something: that you're a good man.」
Jack Sparrow:「All evidence to the contrary.」

Jack Sparrow:「Do tell, dearie.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Curiosity. You're going to want it. A chance to be admired. And gain the rewards that follow. You won't be able to resist. You're going to want to know... what it tastes like.」
Jack Sparrow:「I *do* want to know what it tastes like.」

ELIZABETH SWANN:「But - seeing as you're a good man I know you will *never* put me in a position that would compromise my honor.」
narrator:Jack stares in horror as the black spot boils back into view on his hand, Elizabeth doesn't notice]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「I'm proud of you, Jack.」
narrator:GIBBS Land ho!
Jack Sparrow:「I want my jar of dirt.」

RAGETTI:「What, with a long A?」
PINTEL:「Aye.」
RAGETTI:「No-no-no-no-no-no-no. Krock-en's how it's pronounced in the original Scandinavian, and Krack-en's closer to that.」
PINTEL:「Well we ain't original Scandinavians, are we? Kray-ken!」
RAGETTI:「It's a mythological creature, I can calls it what I wants.」
narrator:ISLA CRUCES beach
 their longboat arrives at the beach, Jack disembarks and begins to walk off]
Jack Sparrow:「Guard the boat, mind the tide... Don't touch my dirt.」

narrator:Elizabeth sits down on the sand, and sets the compass down on the sand, the needle points to her]
Jack Sparrow:「Yes it *does*. You're sitting on it!」

ELIZABETH SWANN:「Beg your pardon?」
Jack Sparrow:「Move.」

Jack Sparrow:「I do that quite a lot. Yet people are always surprised.」
WILL TURNER:「With good reason!」
narrator:Will has unexpectedly appeared on the beach, walking up toward them]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Will! You're alright! Thank God! I came to find you!」
narrator:Will and Elizabeth kiss]
Jack Sparrow:「How did you get here?」
WILL TURNER:「Sea turtles, mate. A pair of them, strapped to my feet.」
Jack Sparrow:「Not so easy, is it?」
WILL TURNER:「But I do owe you thanks, Jack.」
Jack Sparrow:「You do?」
WILL TURNER:「After you tricked me onto that ship to square your debt with Jones.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「What?」
Jack Sparrow:「What?」
WILL TURNER:「I was reunited with my father.」
Jack Sparrow:「Oh! Well... you're welcome, then.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Everything you said to me... every word, was a lie!」
Jack Sparrow:「Pretty much. Time and tide, love.」

narrator:Will stoops down with the key to open the chest]
Jack Sparrow:「Oy! What're you doing?」
WILL TURNER:「I'm gonna kill Jones.」
narrator:Jack draws his sword, points it at Will]
Jack Sparrow:「Can't let you do that, William. 'Cause if Jones is dead, who's to call his terrible beastie off the hunt, eh? Now. If you please: The key.」
narrator:Will backs up slowly, then suddenly draws Elizabeth's sword, points it at Jack]
WILL TURNER:「I keep the promises I make, Jack. I intend to free my father. I hope you're here to see it.」
narrator:Norrington draws his sword, points it at Will]
NORRINGTON:「I can't let you do that, either. So sorry.」
Jack Sparrow:「I knew you'd warm up to me eventually.」

narrator:Norrington points his sword at Jack]
NORRINGTON:「Lord Beckett desires the contents of that chest. I deliver it, and get my life back.」
Jack Sparrow:「Ah. The dark side of ambition.」

narrator:noticing the key gone, Norrington then turns and duels with Jack]
 soon Norrington knocks Jack's sword from Jack's hand, the sword is flung onto the ground below]
NORRINGTON:「Do excuse me while I kill the man who ruined my life.」
WILL TURNER:「Be my guest.」
Jack Sparrow:「Let us examine that claim for a moment, former Commodore, shall we? Who was it, who at the very moment you had a notorious pirate safely behind bars, saw fit to *free* said pirate, and take your dearly beloved all to hisself, hey? So who's fault is it, *really*, that you've ended up a rum-pot deckhand what takes orders from pirates?」

Jack Sparrow:「Still rooting for you, mate!」

Jack Sparrow:「Wup!」
narrator:Jack stands up in the bottom of the hole]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh.」

narrator:the axle of the wheel breaks off with Norrington and Jack dueling on top]
 Jack is facing the other direction, so is unaware of the freed wheel rolling behind him]
 the wheel crashes through a small fence, turns, and rolls directly towards Jack]
 the waterwheel rolls over Jack, and Jack is pulled into the inside of the wheel]
Jack Sparrow:「Woah!」

narrator:Sword!
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Sword!」
narrator:a sword is thrown to Elizabeth, just in time]
PINTEL:「Sword!」
narrator:a sword is thrown to Pintel, just in time]
RAGETTI:「Sword!」
narrator:a sword is thrown to Ragetti, just in time]
 Jack sees Hadrus running alone through the palms, carrying the small chest]
 Jack picks up a coconut, whirls it a moment, then throws it at Hadrus]
 Hadrus' (conch shell) head is knocked off by the coconut]
 Hadrus' head lies on the ground, attempting to give orders to the rest of his body to find the head]
HADRUS:「Aya! Uh ?seech! Aunido! Aunido! Follow my voice! Follow my voice! To the left, uh... No, to the right... Go to the left...」
narrator:Hadrus' headless body walks into a coconut palm]
HADRUS:「No... That's a tree.」
Jack Sparrow:「Oh, shut it.」

Jack Sparrow:「Jar of dirt!」

Jack Sparrow:「Leave him lie! Unless you plan on using him to hit something with.」

narrator:Norrington takes the chest]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「You're mad.」
NORRINGTON:「Don't wait for me.」
Jack Sparrow:「Uh, I say we respect his final wish.」

PINTEL:「You're pulling too hard!」
RAGETTI:「You're not pulling hard enough!」
GIBBS:「Where's the Commodore?」
Jack Sparrow:「He fell behind.」

narrator:the Flying Dutchman suddenly surfaces alongside them]
GIBBS:「Lord almighty.?us.」
Jack Sparrow:「I'll handle this, mate.
 Hey! Fishface! Lose something? Hey? Oup!」

Jack Sparrow:「Got it!」

Jack Sparrow:「Come to negotiate, eh, have you, you slimy git? Look what I got. I got a jar of dirt! I got a jar of dirt! And guess what's inside it?」
DAVY JONES:「Enough!」
narrator:the Flying Dutchman's cannon covers slide down, cannons emerge from the holes]
Jack Sparrow:「Hard to starboard.」

narrator:BLACK PEARL
 MARTY They're giving up! Yay!
 crew cheers]
WILL TURNER:「My father is *on* that ship. If we can outrun her, we can take her. We should turn and fight.」
Jack Sparrow:「Why fight when you can negotiate? All one needs... is the proper leverage.」

narrator:suddenly the Black Pearl is badly jarred]
 Jack's jar of dirt falls to the deck, breaks open, spills all the dirt]
 Jack runs down to the spilled dirt, searches frantically for the heart, which is gone]
Jack Sparrow:「Where is it? Where is the thump-thump?」

Jack Sparrow:「Abandon ship. Into the longboat.」
GIBBS:「Jack! The Pearl!」
Jack Sparrow:「She's only a ship, mate.」

PINTEL:「S a lot o' open wa'er.」
RAGETTI:「That's a lot o' wa'er.」
WILL TURNER:「We have to try. We can get away as it takes down the Pearl.」
GIBBS:「Abandon ship. Abandon ship or abandon hope.」
narrator:the crew get ready to leave the Pearl, loading supplies and guns]
 Elizabeth approaches Jack]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Thank you, Jack.」
Jack Sparrow:「We're not free yet, love.」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「You came back. I always knew you were a good man.」
narrator:Elizabeth passionately kisses Jack]
 Will sees the kiss from the longboat, falters]
GIBBS:「Prepare to cast off! There's no time to lose! Come on, Will, step to!」
narrator:the kiss is inturrupted by the sound of shackles, Elizabeth has chained Jack to the main mast]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「It's after you, not the ship. It's not us. This is the only way, don't you see? I'm not sorry.」
narrator:Elizabeth leans in as if to kiss him again.]
Jack Sparrow:「Pirate.」

narrator:Elizabeth leaves Jack and climbs down into the long boat]
WILL TURNER:「Where's Jack?」
ELIZABETH SWANN:「He elected to stay behind to give us a chance.」
narrator:the crew look uncertain]
ELIZABETH SWANN:「Go!」
narrator:the longboat casts off]
 Jack struggles with his manacles]
Jack Sparrow:「Bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger...!」
narrator:a coconut and cannonball roll by, on the tilted deck]
 Jack spots a fallen lantern, picks it up with the tip of his sword]
 Jack breaks the lantern against the mast, pours oil over his wrists]
 Jack struggles with slipping his hand out]
Jack Sparrow:「Come on... Come on...」
narrator:Jack finally manages to slip his hands out]
 the Kraken rises up behind him]
 Jack halts, turns around, faces the Kraken]
 music and sound stop momentarily]
 the Kraken roars, spraying Jack with slime and flinging his earlier-eaten hat to the deck]
Jack Sparrow:「Not so bad.」
narrator:Jack spots his old hat lying next to his feet]
Jack Sparrow:「Oh!」
narrator:Jack spots his hat, picks it up, puts it on, wipes slime from his face]

Jack Sparrow:「Hello, beastie.」
