narrator:INT. NONDESCRIPT OFFICE
 There's no one around. He's jumpy. His movements odd. Twitchy.
James Brown:「To himself) Where's everybody?」

narrator:Around a corner he comes face to face with a cleaner, MAVIS, who is wearing headphones as she vacuums.
 Mavis screams and removes her headphones.
 MAVIS Mr. Brown. You scared me!
James Brown:「Mavis. Where's everybody at? I got a meetin' this mornin'.」
narrator:MAVIS It's Sunday, Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「No, it's Tuesday, Mavis.」

narrator:INT./EXT. ADJACENT OFFICE/ PARKING LOT. DAY.
 As the INSURANCE SEMINAR presenter continues, the woman who was on the toilet takes her seat.
SEMINAR PRESENTER:「Now, understand that not all people have the same type of needs. When it comes to an insurance plan everyone is different. (MORE) 3
 You can't possibly sell the same monthly premium to just anyone who strolls through your door. If you learn one lesson this weekend, let it be this: We must accommodate the specific condition of the client. Bottom line! Their needs are-」
narrator:The adjoining door flies opens as James enters, pissed.
James Brown:「OK Stop. Sir. Stop. Who been in there?」
SEMINAR PRESENTER:「Excuse me?」
James Brown:「I own this building, someone has been in there used my commode. Now who was it?」
SEMINAR PRESENTER:「Sorry. We're actually renting this part of the building today, and we're in the middle of a seminar.」
James Brown:「I don't care if you're in the middle of a heart attack son. Someone been in there, I hear the chain flush, I can smell it. Now who it was?」

narrator:INSURANCE SALESMAN It is. It's fuckin' him.
 BACK AT THE FRONT someone sniggers.
 James spins round. SILENCE. Someone sniggers behind him. James spins back round and approaches the salesman.
James Brown:「Something funny?」
narrator:INSURANCE SALESMAN No, sir.
James Brown:「Then why you cats laughing?」

narrator:The office door flies open. James comes back in with a SHOTGUN.
James Brown:「OK listen up people.」
narrator:The room goes still and completely silent.
James Brown:「Being it's Sunday and all I'm gone ask each of you to imagine you're sittin' in church right now. While today's sermon may be good they's something else on your mind. You realize you gotta take a shit. (MORE) 5
 Real bad. And you don't want to shit at the church house, naw sir. So you just sit there and think about getting home to your own toilet in your own master bath on Beech Island, South Carolina. I gotta a bidet in my master bath. Love my bidet. And a big pretty oval tub too.」
narrator:James spins around to man.
James Brown:「You got a bidet, Sir?」
narrator:He shakes his head.
 James looks to a woman.
James Brown:「You?」
narrator:She shakes her head.
James Brown:「Well you gotta get you one. You all gotta get you a bidet. Are y'all sure its really Sunday today?」
narrator:A woman nods.

James Brown:「What was just saying... Oh, that's right. Yes! You gotta take shit. So, after church, you speed back home and you run like hell to the house scared you ain't gonna make it. But you do. Now imagine unhitching your pants as your open your bathroom door. And then you see me. James Brown. Sittin' on your master toilet taking a break. What would you do?」
narrator:More sniggers from all over the room. James raises his gun and KABLOOM!!!
 James accidentally blasts an enormous hole in the ceiling.
 SCREAMS AS EVERYONE HITS THE DECK.
 James looks up the the hole in the ceiling.
James Brown:「(sotto) Good God. Tear up the devil. I'm gone have to get that fixed. 6」

narrator:James looks to the gun unsure of how it went off.
James Brown:「Now I'm a busy man, and I'm guessin' you cats are too. But someone has abused a personal convenience. Now I ask you nicely. I'm gone ask you again. Which one of you gentlefolk hung a number two in my commode?」
narrator:James approaches the salesman.
James Brown:「Was it you, Sir? Was it you?!」
narrator:INSURANCE SALESMAN Don't shoot.
James Brown:「I ain't gone shoot nobody, son.」
narrator:Then, as if told by God, James spins around and locks eyes with the woman who used his bathroom. He approaches her.
James Brown:「Ma'am, it was you wasn't it? You took a break in my bathroom, didn't you?」
narrator:She shakes her head and begins to cry.
 FEMALE SALESWOMAN Yes sir, Mister Brown.
James Brown:「Yes you did. Now, don't cry. It's gone be okay.」
narrator:James lowers the gun to the floor.
 As he tries to console the woman.

James Brown:「You had to use the toilet. You saw an opportunity and you took it. Yeah, I got mad but, Lady, you did right by yourself. I've spent my whole life doing right by myself. I'm James Brown and I made a difference.」

James Brown:「You cats may not own my records but you can bet every record you have got a piece of me in `em. Ain't nobody singing today that ain't been touched by James Brown.」
narrator:James turns back to the woman.
James Brown:「So, Lady, you did right by yourself. And there ain't no other way to live. You understand me?」
narrator:The woman nods. James turns back to us.
James Brown:「You understand me?」

narrator:A
 11A EXT. STREET LEVEL
 A police car pulls up next to him, the officer aiming a weapon and flagging the car down. James sees him and flinches.
James Brown:「Don't hurt me. Don't stop me. Don't stop me.」

narrator:INT. PICKUP TRUCK. DAY
 James sees the roadblock ahead.
James Brown:「Don't stop me. Don't stop me.」

narrator:INT/EXT. PICKUP TRUCK. GRAVEL PITTS, DAY
 James's front tires are blown out. James struggles to control the skidding vehicle.
James Brown:「C'mon. C'mon.」

James Brown:「I Don't Feel Noways Tired".」

MACEO:「(Shaking) Oh. My. God.」
narrator:Drummond taps the soldier opposite. Points out the window. A soldier looks out, turns white.
 SOLDIER Holy shit.
 IN THE COCKPIT - The pilots wrestle to keep the craft upright. Between them, a completely unruffled James Brown is holding court.
James Brown:「See Captain Jenkins, the James Orchestra is a 22 piece, but the Gov'ment or the Army, powers't be say I can only bring six fellas. Right now I got 16 pieces sittin' in a Bangkok hotel. If I'm paying my own money to be here, and I am, I oughtta bring as many cats as I want. Breaks my heart, son. `cause I know they all wish they was here right now.」
narrator:PILOT Mr. Brown, it's probably best if you go back now.
James Brown:「We gone be fine, Captain.」
narrator:PILOT We're under attack Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「Settle down, Captain. James Brown was born dead but then I breathed. God didn't want me then and he sure ain't gonna call me back now.」

narrator:IN THE BELLY - Everyone is frozen. Saying prayers. Moaning. James appears.
James Brown:「Marva, fellas, Listen up. We under attack.」

MACEO:「No shit, Mr. Brown.」
narrator:James flashes five fingers at Maceo four times.
James Brown:「Watch that mouth, Maceo. That's twenty dollars right there.」
narrator:The plane suddenly lurches forty five degree and lets out an awful groan. Everyone screams. Except James who is still standing like rubber even though he wasn't holding onto anything. Bobby sees this.
James Brown:「Mr. Byrd, I've decided to open tonight's show with "I Got The Feeling".」
narrator:James demeanor somehow gives comfort to Bobby. James nods at Bobby and smiles.
James Brown:「How's that sound?」

narrator:Behind them, in deep shock, Maceo and the rest of the band, clutching instruments.
 CORPORAL DOOLEY Welcome to Bear Cat, Mr. Brown. Corporal Dooley. USO Liaison officer. Can I first say I'm a big, big fan of your mus-
James Brown:「You in charge when Bob Hope was over Corporal?」
narrator:CORPORAL DOOLEY (proudly) I was.
James Brown:「to Bobby) Mr. Byrd, You think Bob Hope's plane got shot down?」
BOBBY:「No sir, Mr. Brown.」
narrator:As they approach the hanger filled with troops, a chant begins inside.
 TROOPS James Brown! James Brown!
 James Brown!
 CORPORAL DOOLEY (Tightly) Sorry about the plane trouble-
James Brown:「Plane trouble? They tried to kill James Brown today. You wanna go down in history as the man who killed the funk? 16」

James Brown:「Corporal, let me tell you the first thing about James Brown. The first thing is James Brown don't tell no man his business. He won't tell you how to take Pnom Ridge or how you screwed up the Tet offensive. I don't tell you how to fight your war Corporal. So don't tell me when, where or for how long I can be funky.」

narrator:INT. HANGAR. CONTINUOUS.
 25
 HUNDREDS OF HOT, STEAMING TROOPS ROAR, like a thousand space rockets taking off at once. It's awesome, shaking the stage.
 TROOPS James Brown! James Brown!
 James Brown!
 James and Bobby enter the hanger. We walk with them and strut up six steps and onto the stage.
 Bobby stands back and watches as James grabs the mic and looks out over the sea of faces.
James Brown:「Sorry we're late.
 Are you cats ready?」

James Brown:「(quietly) Are you cats ready?」

narrator:EXT. A PINE WOOD. 1941. DAY.
 JAMES 8 YRS
 A cold fog hangs in the fading sunlit trees.
 Eight year old James stands alone in a forest clearing. He looks all around him.
James Brown:「Momma?」
narrator:He scans the trees. He's alone.
 SUDDENLY in the trees he glimpses someone. A woman. 30. Red dress. She giggles as she scampers from behind one tree to another. She peeps round. He beams.
James Brown:「Momma!」
narrator:He chases her. She's laughing.
SUSIE:「You can't catch me!」
narrator:Each time he loses her she peers from behind a tree he squeals in delight but she disappears. He is suddenly alone.
James Brown:「Scared) Momma?」

narrator:EXT. WOODED PATH. DAY. 1941
 Susie and James walk hand in hand.
James Brown:「Momma, I'm hungry.」
SUSIE:「You ain't hungry baby. That feeling in yo tummy? (MORE) 18
 That feelin' is the spirit inside you. He's in there tickling your belly right now cause he knows you such a good boy. You ain't hungry. He's just trying to make you laugh.」
narrator:Susie begins tickling James.
 James starts to laugh.
SUSIE:「Are you a good boy?」
narrator:He tries to speak but can't from laughing.
SUSIE:「I can't hear you.」
narrator:Susie continues to tickle James.
James Brown:「through laughter) I'm a good boy!」

GERTRUDE:「He resting. Nobody allowed in.」
narrator:Ben offers Gertrude some money. It's a twenty. She takes it.
 Gertrude kisses Bart on the cheek. She opens the door.
GERTRUDE:「Mr. Brown will see you now, Mr. Bart.」
narrator:We go inside with Ben. Sitting slumped, back to us, on a burnished throne in front of a lit mirror, James Brown.
 HENRY STALLINGS attends to the towering bouffant on James' head. Bobby Byrd sits in a chair next to James going over a play list.
 James stares at Ben in the mirror.
James Brown:「Gertrude!」

James Brown:「I said I didn't want to be disturbed. (holds out his hand) That'll be twenty dollars.」
narrator:Gertrude walks over and hands James the same twenty spot Ben gave her. Ben winks at Gertrude as she exits.
BEN BART:「James, I just spoke to the producers. They've requested the Rolling Stones close the show.」
narrator:James looks confused.
James Brown:「Huh?」

James Brown:「The Rolling Stones, huh?」
narrator:James to Bobby.
James Brown:「Then why we here, Bobby?」

narrator:THE DOOR FLIES OPEN. JAMES BROWN STRUTS DOWN THE CORRIDOR AS BEN BART FOLLOWS.
James Brown:「The Rolling Stones ain't even had a hit record here.」
narrator:They pass several dressing rooms along the way.
James Brown:「They ain't even ever played in America. Have they?」
narrator:James passes a dressing room where a group is rehearsing.
BEN BART:「They're just kids. In a year from now we won't even know who they are. It's business, James.」
James Brown:「And it's my business to hear what they got to say about this.」

JAMES BROWN:「Uh-hmm. Well, I was told I'm closing the show. That's why I flew out here.」
narrator:Mick leads James to a couch. They sit.
 MICK JAGGER Listen man. We're filming a movie here today. This isn't live.
James Brown:「I know that.」

narrator:We march out with James. He turns to Ben.
James Brown:「I'll be on stage in five. They better be ready. And the white people.」

narrator:He throws his head back, steps forward and the groove starts. The screams rise to a deafening pitch-
 He's already on the move, in a snake hipped side slide, mash potatoes, up on one leg, level with the mike, spin and BAM!
James Brown:「You got your high-heel sneakers on-」
narrator:The teens in the audience lose it. Bobby Byrd and the Flames in immaculate tuxedos snap and step in time.
James Brown:「You know you out of sight-」
narrator:IN THE WINGS - The Stones and Ben Bart watch a television being fed the show in real time.
 A big smile crosses Ben's face.
 CLOSE ON TELEVISION/INSERT ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE
 INTERCUT FILMED STAGE AND ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE OF JAMES AND THE FLAMES ON TELEVISION.
James Brown:「Say I...I...I...I love you so!」

narrator:ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE: Teenagers shake their heads completely in the thrall of the minutely controlled and manipulated frustration and reward.
 BACK STAGE - James stalks off past the Stones and Ben.
 Keith Richards is slack jawed. Ben swallows a laugh. James continues on. We go with him.
James Brown:「Welcome to America.」

narrator:CLOSE ON JAMES MOUTH IN PROFILE SURROUNDED BY BLACK AND WHITE SCREEN
James Brown:「The British Invasion make a man strong. Make him stand up. You ain't never been down how ya gonna get on up?」
narrator:James turns to us with an even deeper intensity.
James Brown:「I can't never quit cause it get hard. You quit, you going backwards. You going backwards, you dead. So, I take it. But I take it and flip it. I go forward. And I live.」

narrator:INT. HOLLWOOD SOUND STAGE - DAY
 - 1964 JAMES 31YRS
 42
 CLOSE ON: An argyle sweater.
 The intro to I GOT YOU (I FEEL GOOD) ramps up.
 We widen to see James Brown singing.
James Brown:「I feel good! And I knew that I would now...」
narrator:Even wider to reveal BOBBY BYRD and the rest of the flames dancing in sound stage dressed to resemble a Ski Lodge.
 FRANKIE AVALON and THIRTY VERY WHITE EXTRAS dance around James and the flames. Everyone is in argyle and bright colors.
 To the side, FILM CREW MEMBERS AND A DIRECTOR do their best to keep up with the rhythm. James is killing it. His legendary moves in full force.
James Brown:「I feel nice. Like sugar and spice.」

narrator:Music stops. (Tom Newman theme here) James watches the cast, crew and Flames doing their thing for camera.
 James turns to us and speaks.
James Brown:「Take it and flip it.」
narrator:END SLOW MOTION. END TOM NEWMAN THEME.
 James removes his sweater and begins dancing and singing again but now to a faster version of "I GOT YOU". He smiles at us, looks into our eyes. We push in tight.
 We pull back to reveal James now singing this song in the future at The Olympia show. He's sporting a "natural". Beautiful girls dancing behind him.
 Flash- We are back to "Ski Party". Now the boring extras are up on their feet. They dance with precision the way Mr. Brown would prefer. Just for us, James has transformed the "Ski Party" into something way cooler.
 James' feet slide and move him back toward the door of the ski lodge set.
James Brown:「I feel good and I knew that I would now. So good. So good. Cause I got you.」

narrator:James moves outside the door and does a split in the pile of fake snow.
 We are now back to reality. James is again wearing the sweater. The extras are now seated and clapping in a corny fashion.
 The stage bell rings. Over a loudspeaker-
 VOICE That was great James.
 Frankie Avalon runs up to James.
 James remains in his split.
 FRANKIE Wow, James. You've got some groovy moves my friend.
James Brown:「Thank you, Mr. Avalon.
 And please call me, Mr. Brown 30」

narrator:As Frankie nods and walks away, James catches eyes with BOBBY BYRD, 30. Bobby stares quizzically at James as he remains on the floor in his split.
BOBBY:「Get up, James.」
James Brown:「How many times have I done this split Bobby?」
BOBBY:「A thousand, maybe five thousand.」
James Brown:「Exactly, and now the first and only time I rip my pants has to be in front of all those white people.」
narrator:Bobby cracks up.
BOBBY:「In white boy sweater.」
James Brown:「My trumpet, bass, and drums are spread out all over this cold floor.」
narrator:James begins to laugh.
James Brown:「Go get my towel!」

narrator:James sudden bolts out of the trees with the stolen suit and runs down the embankment.
 Just then a police car speeds down the road towards him. James drops the suit and runs to the opposite embankment.
 As James tries to climb the embankment, the police car stops, two officers get out.
 James can't get a footing on the steep embankment.
 We now see that James is wearing the lynched man's shoes.
 CLOSE ON SHOES:
 Digging deeper and deeper in the soil embankment.
 BLAM! A gun fires.
 James stops climbing and turns to see two guns pointed at him. He slides back down the embankment and raises his hands.
 CUT TO:
 FLASH! James gets his mug shot. Front and side.
James Brown:「O.S.) I'm seventeen...」

narrator:EXT. RICHMOND COUNTY JAIL - THAT NIGHT
 CLOSE ON: James speaking through bars.
James Brown:「Know what that means,
 Big Junior? Means they can try me
 in Superior Court. Means they can
 send my juvenile ass down for
 a man's term. 3 maybe 4 years.」

narrator:BIG For robbing a suit?
James Brown:「You reach my daddy?」

James Brown:「I know he's in the Army. So you gotta go find him.」
narrator:Big Junior looks to the ground and nods.
James Brown:「What'd Aunt Honey say?」
narrator:BIG Aunt Honey say she can't help you right now. Not this week.
James Brown:「Go find my daddy, Big. Please! Okay?」
narrator:Big Junior sighs, really uncomfortable.
 BIG Aunt Honey already talked to him, James. Your daddy say it's a bad time too.
 James fills with panic.
James Brown:「So, he knows I'm here?」

narrator:INT. CELL. NIGHT - CONTINUOUS
 James turns from the window. He goes to the sink of his tiny cell, heaving for breath. He looks at himself in the tiny cracked mirror.
James Brown:「Don't cry Junior. Don't cry now.」

narrator:INT. PAROLE REVIEW BOARD, ALTO REFORM SCHOOL. 1952. DAY
 James, 19 years old, sits on a bare wooden chair. James' aunt, HONEY, 40, is in attendance. Next to her sit two young black women dressed very sexy.
WARDEN:「So you want to be a singer?」
James Brown:「Oh no Sir. Truth is I ain't really into all that so much. Not no more.」
narrator:Five white adults sit behind a long table, studying him.
WARDEN:「But the other boys, they call you Music-box.」
James Brown:「It's just a old nickname is all. I'm looking for something stable. Steady. I want to be a Mechanic.」
WARDEN:「So first a singer and now a Mechanic?」
James Brown:「Yes Sir. There's a fella I know back in Augusta, he owns a garage, he said he could find me a job if-」

narrator:INT. INFIRMARY, ALTO. LATER THAT DAY
 Bobby sits in a chair outside the infirmary.
 He holds a cold press to his nose.
 James, bruised and torn but apparently victorious is led by a warden into the infirmary to cheers from his friends. He's seated next to Bobby and cuffed to the chair.
James Brown:「What happened to you?」

James Brown:「Gee, that's too bad.」
narrator:They sit there. James shrugs.
James Brown:「Walk in the jungle sometimes you get bit by a snake.」
BOBBY:「Deadpan) I'll try an' remember that.」
narrator:They sit there.
James Brown:「Say. What's that song you done?」
BOBBY:「We only done half of it. "Mary Don't You Weep" is an old gospel, man. You ain't heard that before? Everybody be doin' it.」
JAMES BROWN:「I ain't heard nothing since my radio got busted. That's a cool song bro'. You sung it great. That sounded real sweet.」
BOBBY BYRD:「Crowd sure went crazy. (James smiles. Then:) You like music?」
James Brown:「Only thing keeps me sane in here.」
BOBBY:「How long you in for?」
James Brown:「Five to thirteen years.」
narrator:Bobby moves his chair an inch or two away.
BOBBY:「What did you do?」
James Brown:「Robbed a suit.」

BOBBY:「They give you five to thirteen for... (Shakes his head) That's time man.」
narrator:James turns to the doorway and continues talking to Bobby as the nurse tends to his nose.
James Brown:「Tell me about it.」
BOBBY:「You get parole?」
James Brown:「Board say I need a permanent family address and a job. But see I don't know no folks here.」
BOBBY:「Where yo' folks at?」
James Brown:「My Daddy's in the army. And my momma... well, she left.」
BOBBY:「Sorry to hear that.」
narrator:They sit there.
BOBBY:「Seriously. You think I sung it good?」
narrator:James looks at Bobby. He moves his seat a bit closer to the door.
James Brown:「You got that swing feel. Hittin' it late. Buh, dum, Bop. That's what a song need.」
narrator:James rises up, pulling the chair with him.
James Brown:「See without that feel, song just sit there. Don't move. You gotta fill it with something. You know what I'm sayin'? 37」

narrator:INT. BYRD HOUSE. DAY
 JAMES 19 YRS
 Dinner at the Byrds. Mom, Pop, and Grandpa, sister SARAH, ten year old brother DARYL, BOBBY.... and James. He's clearly uncomfortable.
 James' eyes dart around the well-appointed dining room with its beautiful wallpaper and curtains hanging from a window.
 James traces the lines of the curtain noticing its lace and perfect pleats.
 MRS. BYRD Like I always say. (Sighs) "Its a sin to stand in Mercy's way".
James Brown:「Thank you, Mrs Byrd.」

narrator:James looks to Bobby.
James Brown:「No. He got a right to ask. I am a jailbird. I've done wrong and I gotta own up to that.」
narrator:James turns to Bobby's grandfather.
James Brown:「I stole a man's three piece suit. You want to know me? I tell ya. My daddy is in the army. My momma left when I was five. I'm skinny but I'm strong. I can read a little bit and I like to sing. That's who's sittin' here.」
narrator:James becomes emotional and sincere.
James Brown:「And I think God knew that when I took that suit that I might end up with you. I ain't never sat at a table with such a fine group of people in my life.」

James Brown:「I used to wish I could put that suit back, but now I'm here with y'all. Fried chicken. Green beans. Corn bread. Those nice curtains.」
narrator:Grandpa Byrd turns to the curtains.
James Brown:「A house smells good. I'm happy I stole that suit. And I thank you for having me here.」

narrator:EXT. TWIGG STREET, THE TERRY. DAY. 1942
 JAMES 9 YRS
 Red dirt street. Shacks. Joe and James walk around to the back of "AUNT HONEY'S" house. The donkey has been tied to Aunt Honey's fence.
 BACKYARD
 We find Aunt Honey sitting a chair.
 She holds a small dog in her arms.
 SEVEN PROSTITUTES wash clothes in tubs and hang them on a line to dry.
 Aunt Honey clearly runs the house. She rises from her chair. Clearly she takes no shit.
JOE:「S'much appreciated Honey. Sure is mighty kind..」
AUNT HONEY:「What the hell am I supposed to do with that donkey, Joe?」
JOE BROWN:「Thought you could sell it.」
AUNT HONEY:「I don't sell donkey, Joe. And Jumpin' in the Army ain't gone make this boy go away.」
narrator:Joe looks away from Honey.
JOE:「to James) Look after yourself Junior.」
narrator:Aunt Honey and James watch Joe cross the street and disappear.
AUNT HONEY:「Everybody gotta be somewhere. What's your name, sugar?」
James Brown:「Junior.」

narrator:EXT. THE TERRY. STREET. DAY.
 Big Junior leads James away from Aunt Honey's. Big Junior turns to James.
 BIG JUNIOR I do this... (BJ touches his hat) You say `Pretty girls', unnerstand? So when they come, you be ready, alright? I'll say- Yessir, yessir, come on down the street-we got sweet whiskey, we got music- (touches his hat)
James Brown:「Pretty girls.」
narrator:BIG JUNIOR We got cards, we got dice, dancing- (touches his hat again)
James Brown:「Pretty girls.」

narrator:INT. BARBERSHOP. THE NEXT DAY.
 JAMES 19 YRS 1952
 The band has just gotten their hair-cut like Louis Jordan (and James Brown).
 Bobby Byrd looks at his hair in the mirror.
BOBBY:「I don't know, James.
 This don't look too gospel.」
James Brown:「What you talkin' about? Your hair is rising up to the Lord right? Like a flame.」

James Brown:「What you think "Caldonia" is, Nafloyd.」

NAFLOYD:「What you talking about? We can't go up there.」
JAMES BROWN:「Why not? Like you said, Nafloyd, "We just playin' around with "Caldonia". So let's go play around.」
narrator:Bobby nods, and James strides towards the stage and gets up. The others look at each other: HOLY SHIT! and scramble after him. James gestures to them to pick up instruments.
JAMES BROWN:「Ladies `n Gentlemen. Hope you're enjoying the show.」
narrator:Nafloyd speaks into his mic.
 NAYFLOYD We're the Star-
 James quickly interrupts.
James Brown:「We're the Famous Flames.」

LITTLE RICHARD:「Get those bitches off my stage!」
narrator:Power to the stage is cut off. The performance is over but the crowd go batshit. NAFLOYD, BABY ROY are shaking.
NAFLOYD:「We the Flames.」
narrator:BOBBY looks at JAMES. A new, knowing look. They bow as one, turn, and walk offstage, CLEAN PAST a furious Little Richard. James returns his glare with an even straighter one.
JAMES BROWN:「Deadpan) Just keepin' it warm for ya.」
narrator:He walks past.
LITTLE RICHARD:「Hey. What's your name?」
James Brown:「The Famous Flames.」

narrator:INT. BOARDING HOUSE. NIGHT.
 James and Bobby sleep next to each other. James whispers to Bobby:
James Brown:「Bobby. I can't make practice Thursday. I gotta get married. 53」

BOBBY:「Whispers) What are you talkin' about? Who you marryin'?」
James Brown:「That chick I met after the Stone Mountain Show. Velma.」
narrator:A silence falls.
BOBBY:「What about my sister?」
narrator:James flashes a devilish smile.
James Brown:「Oh, I'll still harmonize with Sarah from time to time.」
BOBBY:「I ain't playin', James. How you gone do all this?」
James Brown:「Do all what?」
BOBBY:「Practice. The road. Makin' records. Startin' a family.」
James Brown:「I ain't startin' nothin', Bobby. Except what we doin'.」
narrator:James reaches under the bed and pulls out the acetate they just recorded.
James Brown:「That us. We in there Bobby.」

BOBBY:「That's all the money we got. And some we don't.」
James Brown:「But, it is beautiful. All those little grooves. That's us. It's been written. (MORE) 54
 Now, men gone lay with women. That's nature. But a woman ain't never gone stop a real man from what he's supposed to do. That's God. Husband? Daddy? That gives a man purpose. Man gotta have purpose. But purpose don't stop me neither, Bobby. Ain't nothin' gone stop us. Nothin'. And that's God too.」

narrator:INT. KITCHENETTE. 1955. DAY.
 JAMES 22 YRS
 James Brown stares back at his infant son with the same wary look.
James Brown:「You gone smile for me, Teddy Brown?」
narrator:He bounces him on his knee once.
James Brown:「Come on, boy.」
narrator:Twice. The kid smiles. James suddenly becomes moved. He leans over and kisses his son.
VELMA:「We out of greens. You want me to go pick some up?」
narrator:Velma, a cute nineteen year old girl is fixing dinner.
James Brown:「No baby.」
narrator:A car horn outside. He looks out the window.
James Brown:「Baby. I gotta go.」

narrator:EXT. JAMES AND VELMA'S KITCHENETTE
 James bounds off the porch towards the station wagon.
 Velma steps onto the porch with the baby. She suddenly looks very young.
 James turns to his family and pats his hand over his heart.
James Brown:「shouts out) I got you right in here, Teddy Brown.」

narrator:BABY ROY Cool it Floyd!
NAFLOYD SCOTT:「Where my money, James?!」
James Brown:「I'm taking you to the money, Nafloyd. (James tap his head) Right now.」

narrator:INT. PEACHES DINER. 1955. EARLY MORNING.
 79
 James stands in the rear of an African American diner talking on a pay phone. He's a sweaty mess having walked through the night.
 His face drops.
 It registers sudden concern.
James Brown:「Are you sure, Baby?」

James Brown:「Velma's pregnant again.」
narrator:Bobby looks at him. Deadpan.
BOBBY:「Congratulations.」
narrator:James nods.
BOBBY:「So now, we gotta make us a business decision.」
narrator:He reaches in his pocket. Puts a few coins on the table.
BOBBY:「Thirty cents. The question is, do I call the Two Spot, find out we got any messages. Or do I get me a coffee. Or do I skip the coffee, and get me a donut.」
narrator:James considers this. Reaches in his pocket. Puts some coins on the table.
James Brown:「Knock yourself out.」
narrator:A black waitress comes over. Bobby acts as if he's a high roller. Living the life. Perusing the menu.
BOBBY:「Hey honey. Can I get me a coffee...」
narrator:Looks at James. Now for the ultimate luxury.
BOBBY:「..and...let's see...a donut?」
narrator:WAITRESS You boys from outta town?
James Brown:「We're Musicians. We the Famous Flames.」

James Brown:「All we need is a spark, baby. So we can turn the lamp down low till this sun rise up on us in the morning.」
narrator:The waitress pulls her hand back.
 WAITRESS Y'all's broke ass is splittin' that donut, ain't you?
 Bobby starts to laugh.
 WAITRESS I'll bring it with a knife.
 James winks before the waitress walks away.
BOBBY:「I gone call the Two Spot.」
narrator:James expression instantly changes.
James Brown:「Oh no.」
BOBBY:「What?」
narrator:Over at the door, A white guy. Obviously a cop. He waves our waitress over.
 WHITE GUY Excuse me ma'am, I just came from a place called the Tuxedo Room. I'm looking for the boys who were supposed to be playing there tonight?
James Brown:「whispering) I ain't supposed to leave Bibb County without telling my parole officer.」

BOBBY:「He's coming this way. Oh shit.」
James Brown:「I can't go back to prison Bobby.」
narrator:The waitress sits the man down at a nearby table.
 WHITE GUY I've been driving across over two states looking for these boys. They have to be here in Macon. Tell ya what, I'll make it worth your while if you can tell me where they are.
 The man hands the waitress ten bucks and a business card. The woman shrugs as she reads the card.
 WAITRESS King Records? What did they do?
 WHITE GUY Everything right.
 Bobby and James look at each other.
JAMES BROWN:「pole-axed) King records?」
narrator:Bobby crawls out from under the table suddenly all business.
BOBBY:「Evening, Sir. I'm Bobby Byrd this is my associate James Brown.」
narrator:James crawls out and stands before RALPH BASS.
James Brown:「Hi.」

narrator:Bobby looks back at him. Nods.
BOBBY:「King records. As in King Records. The King records.」
narrator:The waitress arrives with a donut and a plate of steak and eggs. She places the steak and eggs in front of James and winks.
 RALPH BASS You sure put a lot into that cut. The main vocal. You got some soul right there.
BOBBY:「Uh.. That's not me. That's uh. That's James.」
narrator:RALPH BASS That you singing?
 James looks BACK TO US.
James Brown:「Yeah. That's me.」

James Brown:「Wait...wait a second here-」
narrator:Raggedly they all come to a halt. Nafloyd seems annoyed.
NAFLOYD:「What we stop for? That was cookin'.」
narrator:Everyone looks pissed at James who seems agitated. Byrd's nervous they're wasting time.
BOBBY:「It's OK sir we OK. We can just start right at the top.」
James Brown:「It ain't right. It's too slow.
 We gotta pick up the pace fellas.」
narrator:James begins to pace.
 Bobby grows concerned.
BOBBY:「What are you doing, James? These men been doing this for a long time. We need to listen to them.」
James Brown:「I need to come in early..push it. Drive it. Early. Before the beat. Then speed it up, man.」
narrator:Ralph Bass speaks to James from the booth.
RALPH:「James, this is a ballad. The pace we've set is perfect.」
James Brown:「I know it's a ballad, Mr. Bass. But a ballad is supposed to get her in the mood, not put her to sleep.」
narrator:The Flames all look at Bobby who looks at the impatient faces waiting on the other side of the glass.

BOBBY:「Let's just get it done OK?」
James Brown:「But it ain't right.」

narrator:A
 INT. BIG BILLS RENDEZVOUS. 1954. NIGHT.
 82A
 THE FAMOUS FLAMES are back on stage at Big Bills only now THEY OWN THE ROOM. A packed standing room only house is going wild for James and the flames.
 Side doors to the club have been opened.
 People pour outside and dance.
 James sings PLEASE! at a much faster pace than at King. Aunt Honey and her girls bump and grind to the music.
James Brown:「Please!
 Please!
 Please.」
narrator:James lowers to the floor and belts his heart out as the song concludes.
 James walks off stage and just outside Big Bills. A bath towel is put over James' back and head to absorb his sweat.
 James is breathing hard, completely exhausted. The crowd is not wanting the show to end. The band is vamps amid cheers.
CROWD:「James Brown, James Brown, James Brown.」
narrator:James slowly rises his head from under his towel and looks right at us. He begins to smile.
 He then looks over to Bobby and nods.
 The band resumes Please, Please, Please.
 Suddenly James throws the towel off of himself and runs to the stage. The cape act is born.
James Brown:「Please!
 Please!
 Please!」

RALPH:「James, this is Ben Bart. Ben is President of Universal Attractions. New York's biggest booking agency.」
BART:「That was a great show last week over in Jersey.」
James Brown:「Well thank you Sir, we worked real hard to-」
BART:「Not we James. Not the Famous Flames. You. James Brown.」
narrator:James looks from one to the other.
RALPH:「What Bart is saying James is-」
James Brown:「I know what Mr. Bart is saying. I heard him. Loud and clear.」
narrator:He looks at them both.
James Brown:「I see where we goin'. Saw it this morning when your secretary called ask me to come here an hour early. Alone. I knew it six months ago. Hell, I knew it the day I was born.」
narrator:James looks back. He doesn't blink. He looks to us.
James Brown:「There's some things I'm gonna want.」

BEN BART:「Boys, I have something to show you.」
narrator:He hands them each a record sleeve. They look down.
BOBBY:「I don't understand. Is this some sort of mistake?」
NAFLOYD:「Reads) His Famous Flames?」
narrator:The sleeve has clearly printed on it "James Brown and his Famous Flames."
 BABY ROY Sir, this ain't right.
BEN BART:「We agree. See I believe it should say simply James Brown. The fact is Gentlemen, James Brown doesn't need the Famous Flames. King records and Universal don't need the Famous Flames. But James has requested that the name remain in some form. Now if you want to stay, stay, but from now on you work for James Brown, on James Brown's records. Should you find this disagreeable in part or whole, you can go home.」
NAFLOYD:「Stunned) James?」
narrator:James stares straight ahead. Nafloyd throws the record at the wall. Bobby stands there, stunned.
 Slowly, James looks at Bobby and then crosses to him.
James Brown:「Bobby. It's just a name. Ain't nothing different between us. This for all us not just me. It's gone be good.」

narrator:INT. KING RECORDS. CINCINNATI. DAY.
 1962
 JAMES 29 YRS
SYD NATHAN:「Forget it. King doesn't make live albums. They're too expensive.」
James Brown:「I think a live album-」
SYD NATHAN:「James, your audience is Negro. Negroes don't buy albums. They don't have the resources. Especially not for a bunch a songs they already got.」
narrator:James turns to Ben Bart.
BEN BART:「James, Recording live is five, six times as expensive as the studio. And that's for some violin concerto at the Met. No one jumps up and shouts "Blow it fucker!" in the middle of The Magic Flute.」
James Brown:「But, Pop, you know my show.」

James Brown:「Mr. Nathan, you ain't ever even seen the show. My show.」
narrator:SYD Don't need to.
 Syd rises and begins to dance. He attempts the "Mashed Potato".
James Brown:「Mr. Nathan-
 What are you doing?」
narrator:SYD The "Mashed Potato".
James Brown:「That ain't the "Mashed Potato".」

narrator:INT. ELITE RESTAURANT. 1962. DAY.
 Ben Bart and James, in a booth. James silent, tense.
James Brown:「Book the Apollo. I'm gonna spend my own money on this. Syd Nathan's wrong.」

James Brown:「Book it out next week for the whole week, go in, we drill it, we drill it, we drill it, then we drop it.」
BEN BART:「Forget it, Jimmy. It's too big of a risk. Let's order something to eat.」
narrator:Ben signals for a waitress to come over.
 James grows intense.
James Brown:「I don't understand risk?」
narrator:James stiffens.
James Brown:「I don't understand cos I'm just the "show"? Is that all I am to you, Pop? The show? The money?」
BEN BART:「Of course not, Jimmy.」
James Brown:「Sure it is. That's all me and my black brothers are to the "White Devil". We the show and you the money. And that's how the White Devil keeps it all.」
BEN BART:「I'm not the "White Devil". I'm trying to protect you. I'm doing my job.」
narrator:James becomes intense. A waitress walks over.
James Brown:「Pop, look me in the eye.」
narrator:Ben stays on his menu.
James Brown:「Pop.」
narrator:Ben looks up.
 The waitress scurries away.

James Brown:「Yeah, I'm the show. But, if I'm spendin' my own money on the show, then I'm gone be the business too. (MORE) 70
 And after we kill The Apollo, I'll kick over a few bucks to the white devil. Whatever I think he deserves. And If I'm payin' you, Pop, you gone show me how to do it.」
narrator:Ben takes this in.
BEN BART:「I'll call Nola Sound. They got these new three track stereo recorders from Ampex.」
James Brown:「And I want the best engineer in town. I don't care what it takes. I don't care what it cost. I want everyone in uniform, the ushers, front of house, the peanut peddlers.」
BEN BART:「We'll need the band in New York immediately.」
James Brown:「And I want `em in Sapphire blue suits. Pop. Sapphire.」

narrator:INT./EXT. CAR/ APOLLO THEATER. 1962. NIGHT.
 Ben Bart drives a sedan. James rides in the front seat.
James Brown:「It's cold. It's cold. It's too cold man. It's too cold. Cold. Cold.」
narrator:They round the corner.
James Brown:「C'mon. C'mon. C'mon. C'mon. C'mon.」

narrator:Out of the window: a line of people. On and on. We round the corner. More people. Another corner. More.
 The doors of the theatre open as we pass. People rush forward as THE CAR PULLS UP. James gets out outside by the stage entrance. Ben follows.
GERTRUDE:「Evening, Mr. Brown. Cold out tonight.」
James Brown:「Gertrude. See if you can get some coffee for the folks in line.」

narrator:INT. APOLLO THEATER. STAGE. NIGHT. 1962
 ONE BY ONE TWELVE PAIRS OF PATENT LEATHER SHOES HIT THE STAGE.
 THE NEW JAMES BROWN REVUE file in with instrument cases like some ultra hip sect.
 In the dimly lit back stage we see the motions of opening their cases and begin setting up their stations, A beautiful black girl pulls up her mini to reveal even more leg.
 James enters looking amazing in a cobalt sharkskin. He approaches the all new band.
 A member of the band, whose back is to us, peers out of the scarlet curtains towards the packed house.
James Brown:「You ready Mr. Byrd?」

narrator:INT. APOLLO. STAGE. NIGHT.
 Syd Nathan and Ben Bart stand in the wings. Syd shouts in Ben's ear.
 SYD We got the level on his main mic way up to drown out the crowd. You gotta get him to hold back a little in the first number!
 CLOSE UP: Big two inch tape magnacorders turn on brushed aluminium spindles. Recording live.
 Ben Bart looks over at James at the curtain edge. A man possessed.
BEN BART:「I think its too late for that. You ain't got a breeze, Syd. You got a hurricane.」
narrator:James looks at Bobby. Bobby nods. James nods back. The band vamp.
James Brown:「Watch me.」
narrator:The curtain opens. BANG! James Brown &amp; the New Revue are in perfect timing looking impeccable in their new sapphire blue suits. The crowd goes wild with excitement.
 Mr. Dynamite steps on stage-- and floats and dances across bare planks like they were polished ice. He reaches the mike.
James Brown:「You know I feel alright. (Yeah!) You know I feel alright children. (Yeah!) I feel aaaaaaaallllriiiiiiight.」

narrator:James Brown and the New Revue are tearing up their second number, "Think."
 SYD NATHAN now sits in the audience surrounded by a SEA OF BLACK FACES. We gather that Syd has never really experienced "The Show". He smiles and nods to the beat.
 Just then a female seated behind him shouts as the horns kick in.
 FEMALE IN AUDIENCE Blow it fuckers!!!
 James stares into the darkness. He's already begun to sweat. The drums stop a six punch combination from the horns dead. He reaches for the mic without looking. Leans in and locks eyes with Syd.
James Brown:「Think...Think...Think...About your bad self...」

narrator:INT. APOLLO DRESSING ROOM. NIGHT.
 After. The cheers still ringing out. People packed into his dressing room. Champagne corks pop. Congratulations from all.
James Brown:「Thank you. That's very kind of you.」
narrator:Bobby, at the door. Can't get to him. Turns to Gertrude.
BOBBY:「Gertrude. Get everybody out.」
GERTRUDE:「What?」
narrator:ACROSS THE ROOM
James Brown:「We gone celebrate tonight. And then tomorrow we gone Wilmington and do it to it all over again. 74」

narrator:FLASHBACK - EXT. STREET. NIGHT.
 1942. JAMES 9 YRS
 Little Junior walks Twigg street at night. Passing dives and joints.
 Suddenly he stops, across the street, he sees a woman coming out of a bar arm in arm with a BLACK SOLDIER.
 He follows her up the street. She's weaving and laughing with the drunk soldier.
James Brown:「Momma?」
narrator:SUSIE and the soldier walk into a side yard where a party is in full swing.
 James approaches her from behind.
James Brown:「Momma it's me. It's me.」

narrator:EXT. STREET/FISH HOUSE. DAY. 1965
 James and Ben Bart walk up a street. They turn a corner to see a gleaming new Cadillac parked next to the Fish House.
 We see a DRIVER inside. The driver exits.
BART:「Compliments of Universal Attractions.」
James Brown:「This for me? Looky this! We got us a chauffeur.
 (to the chauffeur) Gimme the keys. What they payin' you?」
narrator:James takes the keys and then pulls out a roll of bills and counts out six hundreds. He hands them to chauffeur.
James Brown:「This here's a month's pay, help you get yourself another job. I gone drive myself.」

narrator:The chauffeur smiles, hands Bart his hat and walks off down the street.
James Brown:「Don't mention it. (turns to Ben Bart) That's six a month goin' somewhere else.」

James Brown:「Pop, see there's something I been meaning to ask you.」
BART:「What's that Jimmy.」
James Brown:「I got a seventh grade education Pop, so you'll have to excuse me. I was looking over those figures you sent me, and something occur to me: we don't pay the promoter, the promoter pay us.」
BART:「Just standard Jimmy. Guarantee against fluctuating ticket sales. Lets plan a-」
James Brown:「sure we planning, see I ask myself, what if we don't got fluctuating sales. What if you knocking the tar out of every show.」
narrator:Ben Bart watches James with a new outlook on his partner and friend.
BART:「Well let me explain the way it works. When you book a show. Take Chicago. Now our promoter in Chicago is-
 Lenny J Frank. Lenny's the number one promoter in Chicago has been for twenty years.」
James Brown:「I don't doubt it.」
BART:「Now when Lenny pays us a flat rate, we can account. You know, number one, you're getting top rate and number two-」
James Brown:「What if we took the gate? (Bart stops JAMES looks over) What if we took it ourself. (MORE) 78
 And still got the show promoted, but better.」

BEN BART:「Better than Lenny Franks?」
James Brown:「Lenny Franks a James Brown fan? How old he, sixty? Why's he gone try harder for James Brown than for Sam Cooke? Or Ray Charles. Or Tom Jones. See Pop. We go to the radio stations.」
BART:「Jimmy, I understand your frustration but you gotta realize you're entering a game where the rules are set out. If you were a ball player you can't walk in and change how many innings they're gonna play just because...」
narrator:As Bart drones on, James loses interest and starts addressing us directly.
James Brown:「You see my point right? OK. Listen up. We go to the radio station. We go to the young cats. The hungry cats. The late night cat.」

narrator:INT. RADIO STATION.
 James talks to us as he stands next to a DEEJAY, ALAN LEEDS, The deejay doesn't hear James talking to us.
James Brown:「The twenty year old white deejay in Richmond Virginia who's getting paid nothing and is only doin' it because he loves music. We go to him we ask him if he want to be the sole James Brown promoter for the Richmond show. For a percentage. He gone say:」

narrator:JAMES WALKS PAST THROUGH THE STATION TALKING TO US.
James Brown:「Between nothing and fifty bucks a week. But he love my music. He digs James Brown. And he got a microphone and a turn-table and four hours airtime to kill.」
narrator:YOUNG RICHMOND DEEJAY Screw Payola.
 LATER - THE RADIO STATION.
 He spins it. MUSIC starts: "Papa's Got a Brand New Bag."
 JAMES BEGINS TO GROOVE.
James Brown:「And at the end he gone say..」

narrator:INT. FISH HOUSE. DAY.
 96
 BACK AT THE FISH HUT, JAMES IS TALKING TO US AS HE ORDERS A PLATE OF FISH.
James Brown:「Now because he's twenty he's got strong legs. And he knows everyone.」

narrator:EXT. THE STREETS. 1965.
 THE VARIOUS DEEJAYs -- riding around town on bikes, on skates, diving out of cars, pasting up posters everywhere.
James Brown:「V.O.) He know the guy in the barber shop knows the guy at the pool hall, the guy at the garage. 80」

narrator:INSIDE JAMES PAYS FOR A LARGE PLATE OF FISH.
 98
James Brown:「to us) That way we get our record played outside Payola, we get our show promoted better, harder, cheaper, and we keep the gate.」

narrator:EXT. FISH HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
 99
 James exits the fish house and sits down at a rickety card table with Bart.
James Brown:「to Bart) And the best part is, you can put it all through the books. Item. Promoter. (He turns to Bart) What'd you think Pop?」
BART:「Its beautiful Jimmy. I can't do it.」
narrator:Bart picks up a piece of fish and eats it.
James Brown:「Why not?」
BART:「Universal Attractions promotes many acts. I can't piss off the 60 or 70 promoters in this country to skim a little extra on the James Brown Show.」
James Brown:「It's not a little. If the show sells, and it's sellin', we talking thousands of dollars a night. Difference per year between 2 and 3 million dollars.」
BART:「And I'm out of a job. Think you're forgetting I don't just work for James Brown.」

James Brown:「And there's my next point Pop. Why not? (Bart stops) (MORE) 81
 I can do something for you, and you can do something for me, and it ain't buy me no Cadillac. Did you buy Wilson Pickett a Cadillac? Did you buy Jackie Wilson a Cadillac? You know which way this thing is going Pop. I got people around me who don't see it.」

narrator:INT. BACKSTAGE. POST SHOW. NIGHT. 1965
 James walks down the corridor backstage. Stops. Sniffs. Opens an equipment room door. NEW BAND MEMBER is inside smoking reefer.
James Brown:「Who you play Sax with son?」
narrator:NEW BAND MEMBER James Brown Orchestra, Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「What's the rule?」
narrator:NEW BAND MEMBER No hopheads. No reefer heads. No junkies.
James Brown:「Not on the bus. Not backstage. You a talented horn player, son. You gotta keep your game tight. Now you wanna smoke a little groove on your own time, that's yo' business. But we out here to work hard and we gone do just that you dig? Fifty. 83」

narrator:Puts out his hand. NEW BAND MEMBER counts off bills and walks down the corridor.
 James turns around to find a beautiful black woman staring back at him. She holds a notebook and pen.
James Brown:「Hello pretty thing. You want an autograph?」
narrator:She nods.
 James approaches and tries to grab the notebook.
 She pulls it back from his grasp with a smile
James Brown:「You want to come with me? So I can sign it somewhere private?」

narrator:INT. JAMES BROWN'S HOME. BEDROOM. WALTON WAY. AUGUSTA.
 105
 James walks into the bedroom of his home. Dede is sitting at the end of their bed looking beautiful in a sexy negligee.
James Brown:「I called you yesterday, you ain't home.」
DEDE:「I was home all day.」
James Brown:「You were home all day. So why you didn't pick up the phone?」
DEDE:「I don't know. What time you call?」
James Brown:「I call you at one and quarter past one, then I call you at two. And I call again at three.」
DEDE:「You must've wanted to talk to me pretty bad.」
James Brown:「Where were you? 84」

DEDE:「Yesterday. I don't know..in the bath?」
James Brown:「For two hours?」

narrator:INT. BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS
 106
 James walks in with the phone. James throws the phone at a bathroom mirror. It shatters.
 BACK IN THE BEDROOM
 Dede is still as stone.
 James looks to Dede and then begins to smile.
James Brown:「I ain't gone fine you, baby.
 You fine enough already.」
narrator:Dede smiles.
DEDE:「Then get over here, Mr. Dynamite.」
narrator:James approaches Dede and begins taking off his clothes.
James Brown:「Got you a phone in the bathroom now.」

James Brown:「You peekin' brother? OK. OK. (James stops the car.) You ready. You ready? OK. Open `em. (Bobby does. ) Check it Bobby. Is that something?」
narrator:Bobby opens his eyes and sees a Lear Jet stands on a runway. "James Brown" on the side.
James Brown:「That something Bobby? Is that something?」
BOBBY:「Yeah brother. That's something.」
narrator:Velma pulls up in another car. It's full of James kids. Teddy plus four more. He picks them all up and hugs them. As he does, Bobby sheepishly greets Velma.
BOBBY:「Hey Velma.」
VELMA:「Hey Bobby.」
narrator:James and Dede come over. Bobby takes a step back.
VELMA:「Teddy got impetigo.」
James Brown:「Impetigo?」

VELMA:「All that mess round his mouth. That's impetigo. It's highly infectious.」
narrator:Velma turns to Dede.
VELMA:「I'm just sayin' Mrs. Brown, I wouldn't go too near Teddy. Not unless you wanna catch impetigo.」
DEDE:「Thank you, Velma. I'll consider myself warned.」
VELMA:「Warned? Oh, that's a whole other conversation. Welcome to the family.」
narrator:Dede and Velma smile at each other.
 James looks at the two women then to Teddy.
 He pulls Teddy in close. James turns to his other kids.
James Brown:「Listen up. Which one of you cats want to fly to Reno on daddy's airplane?」
narrator:The kids all say "me!... me!" The kids, Bobby and Dede walk up the steps onto the plane as Velma gets in her car.
 James lingers.
James Brown:「(to Velma) You need anything?」

narrator:INT. AIRPORT MEETING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
 110
 BART, James study at a map. BOBBY sits across the aisle.
BART:「Then we got a day between Raleigh, Carolina and Columbia two days after.」
James Brown:「Day off?」
BART:「Sure. Regroup. Rest the horses.」
James Brown:「We ain't payin' the horses to rest `em. Besides, we got a day off in two weeks in New Orleans. The boys can get their wives, girlfriends along, kick back. What's between Raleigh and Columbia? Spartanburg?」

BOBBY BYRD:「Well there was five of us to start with. Nafloyd Scott, Baby Roy Scott, Sylvester Keels..」
narrator:JOURNALIST And they left...
BOBBY BYRD:「Yeah. They left.」
narrator:James walks into the interview area.
James Brown:「interrupting) Bobby? What's the name of the theater in Spartanburg...」
BOBBY:「Uh.. The Viceroy. The..」
James Brown:「The Regal!」
BOBBY:「Yeah. That's it. The Regal.」
James Brown:「to Bart) On Howard Street and main. Hold about 750 people. Guy named Bennett used to own it. Yeah, Spartanburg. Yeah, we'll play there and I can bring in my masseuse from Anderson.」
narrator:James disappears again.
James Brown:「O.C.) Call `em up, Pop.」

narrator:EXT. JAMES BROWN'S HOME. WALTON WAY. 1967. CHRISTMAS.
 111
 On the lawn of James' and Dede's new home a Christmas spectacular is staged. The Brown's Colonial is smack dab in the middle of Augusta's most elite, white neighborhood.
 Fake snow is being sprayed on the lawn by Teddy.
 Kids of all races play in the white stuff.
 We widen to see a huge line of people waiting to meet James who is dressed as Santa Clause.
 Dede is dressed as a sexy Mrs. Clause. Dede wears sexy fish net hose which rise up her legs, disappearing into a short red skirt. Dede holds an infant girl.
 One by one, kids and their parents approach James.
 He hands each Kid a five dollar bill.
 A little white boy approaches.
James Brown:「Hey little man, you been good this year.」
narrator:LITTLE BOY Yes, Mister Brown.
 James hands him a five spot.
 Dede hands the little boy a candy apple.
 Another little white boy and his father approach. James as James speaks to the little boy.
James Brown:「Merry Christmas, Little Man.」

narrator:James passes Dede without a word and heads to the back of the house.
 Dede follows James thought the living room and into the kitchen.
 James disappears around a corner.
DEDE:「You want some dinner?」
narrator:Dede follows James around the corner and disappears.
James Brown:「O.C.) You stand up in James Brown's yard dressed like that? So every man can see you?」
narrator:Then suddenly, A SMACK is heard. Dede's Body falls back into frame and collapses on the kitchen floor.
 A towel flies into frame and lands next to Dede.
James Brown:「O.C.) Cover yourself up.」

narrator:JAMES 34 YRS 119 INT. NEW ORLEANS HOTEL REHEARSAL ROOM. 1967
 The band, all in their suits, with their instruments. All glaring. One more pissed off than the next. Vicki stands in the corner.
 James is in the middle of an extended anecdote.
James Brown:「See My great grandmother on my momma's side, she Asian. She got Asian blood. See Asians are a flexible race. You get with an Asian chick? That a whole other story. No spank but they got it baby they got it. Anyway what was I talkin `bout?」
MACEO:「Your Chinese knees Mr. Brown.」
James Brown:「That's right. That it. I got these Chinese knees. (MORE) 95
 That's how come I can dance the way I do. Anyway. One. Two. Three. Four. Hit it.」
narrator:The band starts up. During the introduction to COLD SWEAT, MACEO comes in late on the Sax. Everything stops.
James Brown:「Stop. Maceo. (Laughs) What you doing man? You coming in maybe a little too late. What's the matter son. You lost your feeling?」
MACEO:「Flatly) No Sir. I ain't lost no feeling.」

narrator:SILENCE. James tunes into the vibe for the first time. SOMETHING's wrong.
James Brown:「Innocently) Something wrong, Maceo? (SILENCE. Directly) Is something wrong, Maceo?」
BOBBY BYRD:「James-」
narrator:James rounds on Bobby.
James Brown:「You got something to say Mr. Byrd? (Silence. Smiling) Because a man got something to say he should say it. You got something to say?」
narrator:SILENCE. Vicki looks away. All at once James loses it.
James Brown:「(Shouting) Well then you just HOLDING UP THE REHEARSAL Mr. Byrd.」

James Brown:「I can't have people HOLDING UP THE REHEARSAL. If I can't do it right I ain't gone do it at all. We got to GET ON. GET AHEAD. Now you know the rule. (MORE) 96
 You late, you off or you hold us up, it's no good, Mr. Byrd. Its gonna cost you 50 dollars.」
narrator:Bobby's jaw tightens. Everyone holds their breath.
James Brown:「Now are you ready Mr. Byrd. Are you ready Mr. Byrd?」
narrator:Pause.
BOBBY BYRD:「Yes, Mr. Brown.」
narrator:James glances to Vicki and winks.
James Brown:「Good. I ain't fattening frogs for snakes. From the top. One Two...」
narrator:COLD SWEAT resumes. Bobby sings his backing part.
 James stands in the middle of the floor. Its good but-
JAMES BROWN:「Quit it. (They all stop) Clyde man. Lets get that POP! Dee.. app..POP! Unnerstand? It drop before you reach the beat. Dig?」
narrator:Jimmy Nolen looks worriedly at Pee Wee.
MACEO:「Whispers to Waymon) Does he mean top of the bar?」

PEE WEE:「To Maceo) He means the down beat.」
James Brown:「It goin' wrong there Pee Wee, when it rise up.」

MACEO:「We rehearsed it like you told us. We got it like you like it. Jimmy can't do that with the part he's playing. We can change the part if you want.」
JAMES BROWN:「Suddenly angry) Did I say change the part? Don't change the part. How many records you got?」
narrator:James sarcastically responds to Maceo's silence.
James Brown:「Thank you! I like the part he playin' now. I just want it in a different place.」
narrator:Blank stares from the band. James walks over to Clyde's snare and points.
James Brown:「What's this, Maceo.」
narrator:MACEO. It's a snare, Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「A snare what?」
narrator:MACEO. Drum.
James Brown:「Correct.」
narrator:James moves over to Jimmy. Points to his guitar.
James Brown:「What's this, Maceo?」
MACEO:「Guitar, Mr. Brown.」
James Brown:「No it's not.」
narrator:James goes back to Clyde and points to Maceo's sax
James Brown:「What's that, Pee Wee? 98」

narrator:PEE WEE. A drum, Mr. Brown?
James Brown:「Now you're getting it.」
narrator:James crosses to Pinckney and points to Odum's guitar
James Brown:「What's that he's holding.」
PEE WEE:「A drum?」
narrator:James points to the horn section.
James Brown:「You Fellas. What are those shiny things you holding.」
narrator:EVERYBODY IN THE ROOM Drums.
James Brown:「Now we all got our drums. Now when you're playing the drum it don't matter what key you're in, what bar your in or what planet you on. Dig?」

narrator:INT. KING RECORDING STUDIO. DAY. 1968 JAMES 35 YRS
 Boiling studio. James drenched in sweat howls at the microphone.
James Brown:「Mother, she got to have. Say, you got to have a mother for me. Yeah, popcorn!」
narrator:The band sit right into the groove of MOTHER POPCORN and sweet thunder rolls onto another master tape. Everyone's eyes are glued to James standing in the centre: directing them with body movements and gestures, playing the whole band like a single instrument.
James Brown:「Quit it. (They stop.) We missing something. (They look at each other. It was perfect.) (MORE) 101
 Pee Wee, get over here by the microphone. And bring that horn box. That's where you keep the wig, right?」

narrator:James is in with the horns, who are all crying with laughter, enjoying the hell out of this rare moment of levity. James, deadpan, eggs him on. Pee Wee calls for a horn solo from him.
 SUDDENLY there's a commotion in the mixing booth. James brings them to a stop.
James Brown:「What is it? Why we stop Henry?」
narrator:The engineers hands go to their faces. Shaking heads.
James Brown:「What? What is it?」

narrator:James doesn't look away from the screen.
JAMES BROWN:「Tell the Mayor, I sold 30 million records and ninety five percent of them are to the black community. They listen to me. They won't riot」
BART:「We have virtual race war looming across the South, Jimmy. Politics, 101? Don't put 10,000 angry blacks together in one place in the middle of a city, and broadcast it live to the world.」
James Brown:「Get the Mayor on the phone.」

narrator:INT. KING RECORDS. SYD NATHAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT.
 James is on the phone with the mayor
James Brown:「Mr. Mayor, the way I see it, you already lost your next election. You lost it at 7:05 PM Memphis time.」

narrator:INT. BOSTON MAYOR OFFICE - NIGHT.
 124
 The mayor listens intently with the phone pressed to his ear.
James Brown:「Now tomorrow night, you either got 10,000 angry folks in the Boston Garden, or you got 10,000 angry folks on your front lawn. Take your pick son. Which one you want?」

narrator:MAYOR All of us are here to night to listen to a great talent. James Brown. But we're also here to pay tribute to one of the greatest Americans, Dr. Martin Luther King. So, let us look at each other and pledge that whatever else any other community might do we in Boston will honour Dr. King in peace.
 James steps forward.
James Brown:「Brother before I get to this next thing I wanna say. He's a young man you dig. He's a young man so he's thinking together. The man is together. Give him another round of applause.」
narrator:James watches the restless, shouting, crowd. He looks at the cameramen. The tension is unbearable. He lets it build.
James Brown:「Hit it.」

narrator:On stage James stops the band.
James Brown:「Wait a minute. Step off. Move off. I'll be a'ight here. I be fine.」
narrator:James waves the police off the stage on either side to cheers and whistles from the audience.
 Suddenly a ten year old kid appears next to James from out of the audience. He seems amazed to find himself there.
James Brown:「Do you wanna dance son? You dance.」
narrator:No longer held back by police more kids invade the stage. James respects them all, shaking hands and looking at them eye to eye. Kids throng around him on stage. He's losing control.
James Brown:「C'mon. C'mon now. Y'all go down. Go back down. Don't nobody else come up. Wait a minute. Wait. Ladies and gentleman. This is no way. This is. We are black. We are black. (Cheers.) Wait a minute go back. Can't y'all go back down and lets do the show together. We're black don't make us all look bad. Let me finish the show. Step down there. Be a gentleman. Lets represent our own selves. Lets represent our own selves.」
narrator:One by one they step back down into the crowd.

James Brown:「Now I ask the police to step back because I figure I could get some respect from my own people. Now we together ain't we. (Cheers! Screams!) Hit that thing man.」

narrator:INT. ARCHIVAL NEWS REPORT.
 HEADLINE, under a picture of James: RACIAL PEACE RESTORED IN CAPITOL AFTER RIOTING.
 ARCHIVAL NEWS REPORT City officials in Washington DC have praised James Brown. Order has returned to the city hit by rioting largely because of radio and television appeals from the soul singer over the weekend.
 OVER JAMES' PERFORMANCE AT THE GARDEN AS YOUNG BLACK GUYS DANCE.
James Brown:「V.O.) In America today you've either got to be an entertainer or a ball player or what? If you poor, young and black, what is there? And you ask me why they on the street? It ain't politics we watchin'. It's economics.」

narrator:INT. JAMES BROWN PRODUCTIONS LEAR JET. NIGHT.
 James is on the plane with Ben Bart.
James Brown:「You got kids out there that can't eat, robbing and stealing and doing what they have to do to make it. And if you don't do something about it we gonna lose the country. I go to Harlem, talk to Rap Brown, talk to the Nation they call me a separatist. Here we're on our way to the White House, Pop, and they already calling me an Uncle Tom. So what I supposed to do? (MORE) 106
 Write a check for Rap so he buy rifles, machine guns, rally on 125th and take it south? What it say to you, a street kid from Augusta, Georgia in the White House?」
BART:「It says you kissin' up to the Man James.」
narrator:James is taken aback. No-one else in the world could say this.
James Brown:「You asking me to turn this plane around and stand up the President?」

BART:「No. I'm saying who gives a shit. You're already screwed, James. Think about it.
 If you stand up Lyndon Johnson to go kiss up to the Panthers, you ain't gone be playin' Vegas anytime soon because if they think you can stop a riot, they sure as hell will expect you to start one.」
James Brown:「So here I am. Just a sorry soul brother whining inside his private jet, huh?」

narrator:INT. WHITE HOUSE - NEXT MORNING - 1968
 128
 CLOSE ON JAMES WITH HIS HEAD TILTED BACK TALKING UPWARD:
James Brown:「I want to go to Vietnam. I want to show unity for the boys out there. The beleaguered, the tired and in the dark. (MORE) 107
 And we need to bring awareness, and Mr. President, we need to bring the super heavy funk.」

narrator:A
 INT. HANGER. VIETNAM.
 128A
 We are now back in Vietnam at the hanger concert.
 James looks right at us.
James Brown:「Take it and flip it.」

narrator:The door opens. James and Teddy walk in. James and Teddy's hair is cut into a short natural. Everyone looks at each other.
James Brown:「Hit it.」
narrator:The band starts. James makes a few adjustments. Jimmy Nolen strikes up a womp-womp sound on a single string. The horns do the James trademark ladidadidat.
James Brown:「Quit it. (he pushes the intercom to the booth) Bring `em in.」
narrator:The door opens. 32 children enter the room. Most kids are black, except for a few Mexican children. Dede and Teddy are there, along with some of James' other kids.
James Brown:「How we all doin'. Hope this ain't too late for you folks.」
narrator:James and Teddy stand before the group.
 James puts his arms around Teddy as he addresses the kids.
James Brown:「I brought you all here today so I could tell you something very important. I want you all to know that you can do or be anything you want in this world. Don't let anybody tell you anything different. You understand? When I was a boy I used to shine shoes in front of radio station. Now I own that radio station. You got to build it. And then you gotta learn it... and that's when you earn it.」

James Brown:「We ready fellas?」
narrator:The groove starts again. James flies into I'm Black and I'm Proud.
 WHICH PLAYS OVER ADDRESSING US DIRECTLY
James Brown:「I think about a lot of things. About problems. About solutions. You know one way of solving a lot of problems that we've got in this country...is letting a person feel that they important. Feel that they somebody. It's it. Man can't get hisself together... ...until he know who he is and be proud of what and who he is and where he come from! WHERE WE ALL COME FROM!」
narrator:James leaves us and continues with the song.
 He looks to the children
James Brown:「Say it loud!」

narrator:AA
 INT. JAMES BROWN PRODUCTIONS. NEXT MORNING.
 135AA
 James Brown enters his recording booth to find Teddy at the controls. Gertie sits in a chair behind Teddy.
James Brown:「You the man, Teddy Brown?」

narrator:James notices the band sitting idle on the other side of the glass.
James Brown:「Gertie. The band ready?」

JAMES BROWN:「Y'all act like y'all don't know what time it is. What you doin'?」
narrator:Nothing happens. James looks Maceo in the eye. Maceo approaches.
MACEO:「I've been elected spokesman to speak on behalf of the band.」
James Brown:「Spokesman? Elected?」
MACEO:「We asked to get paid on time. We haven't been paid in weeks. We asked for scheduled days off. Every day off we get you make us rehearse.. We asked to get paid for recording but you included it in our salary.」
narrator:James turns to Teddy.
 The two stare at each other.
JAMES BROWN:「Teddy, go on and wait outside.」
narrator:TEDDY Yes, Sir.
 Teddy exits.
James Brown:「Fellas. I hear ya. I really do. And I appreciate the honesty. That can't be easy. No Sir. You got grievances. You got your own selves to think about. Hell, you're men. I dig it.」
PEE WEE:「I don't think you understand.」
narrator:James looks to Bobby.

MACEO:「We know you owe the government back taxes. Your restaurant, radio stations, recording studios, labels, all different businesses, Unaccounted cash passing between them. (MORE) 112
 It's a mess, Mr. Brown and if you want us to be a part of it, we gonna need our cash too. Right now.」
narrator:James looks at them all for a very long time hiding his shame.
MACEO:「And most of all none of us ever want to be fined for anything ever again.」
narrator:James nods.
 Studying them.
JAMES BROWN:「I'll tell ya what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna think about it. That's all.」
narrator:They look at each other and file out. Waymon, Pee Wee, Maceo, Kush and Jimmy Nolen file out. Leaving Bobby and James alone.
 SILENCE.
 He looks at the empty room. Smiling. Unable to show any pain.
James Brown:「He shakes his head.) It's like I always say Bobby. You gotta know who you are. You got to know where you are in this world. Five minutes ago, those boys were the best band on the planet. Now they nothing. Now they a bunch of sidemen with their hearts beatin' fast. Maceo comin' in here talking about my taxes. All I've done for this country and they comin' after James Brown? How you gone keep everybody happy? Huh? And stay on top? You along for the ride while everything is groovy and now they gone kick me when I'm down? People either on the bus or they off it.」

BOBBY:「Negro, what makes you think I'm leaving? I been here all the time, Mr. Brown. I'm still here.」
narrator:James looks at Bobby.
James Brown:「See that's the thing about the funk. The funk don't quit.」
BOBBY:「Last time I checked.」
James Brown:「Cause if the funk gone up'n'quit that's it.」
BOBBY:「That's why the funk don't quit.」
James Brown:「Are we done here Mr. Byrd?」
BOBBY:「I'm afraid we ain't Mr. Brown.」
James Brown:「Are we done?」
BOBBY:「I think we got more funk in the trunk.」
narrator:James laughs.
James Brown:「That's right. Two Musketeers.」
narrator:Bobby looks at James. Remembers. Beams. James beams back. Then, James is all business.
James Brown:「What's those kids from Cincinnati. The New Dapps...Blackenizers? Who that kid play bass?」

narrator:CHICKEN
 CATFISH Mr. Brown.
 Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「Do that button up son. (Chicken does) You know Kansas City? (Blank faces) You know Cold Sweat? Do you know Please Please?」
narrator:BOOTSY Can I stop you Mr. Brown. We been learning off yo' records since we was nine years old. You already taught us the songs. So with respect. We ready. Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「They say they ready Mr. Byrd. What you think? 115」

narrator:CATFISH We been waiting for this moment our entire lives, Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「How old are you son?」
narrator:CATFISH Twenty. (Then) Mr. Brown.
James Brown:「Cats know Super Bad?」

narrator:C
 135C INT. PARIS HOTEL ROOM. LATE AFTERNOON.
 The backup singer, Yvonne, nude, carries two glasses of champagne from a wet bar to a very sweaty James who is lying in bed.
 YVONNE Why won't you say it? I said it. Why won't you say it back?
James Brown:「Baby, I gotta get to my show. I can't be playin' around right now」
narrator:YVONNE I love you.
 Yvonne rests the cold glass on James' stomach.
 He squirms.
James Brown:「You know I don't drink.」
narrator:Yvonne pours a little champagne onto James' stomach.
 She then begins licking it with her tongue.
 YVONNE Say it, Mr. Brown. Say you love me.
 In a flash James rolls over and pins Yvonne down on her back. She screams with delight.
 He whispers in her ear.
James Brown:「Happy now? 116」

narrator:D
 FLASH FORWARD - ADULT JAMES, IMMACULATE, LOOKING AT US. 135D THE SKYLINE OF PARIS IS BEHIND HIM. 1971
 James walks along the outside of Olympia Theatre in Paris in full costume.
James Brown:「Now it's true, we work hard. A man gotta work hard if he wanna break ground. And we breaking new ground everyday...」

narrator:E
 INT. OLYMPIA THEATRE. LOBBY. CONTINUOUS.
 135E
 James begins walking toward us.
James Brown:「My record Live at the Apollo is the first R&amp;B album in the history of the world to go top ten. Stayed up in there for 66 weeks..」
narrator:James walks into the rear of the packed house.
 GIRLS AND GUYS SCREAMING, DANCING. JAMES IS INVISIBLE TO THEM.
 From the rear of the house, James watches himself and the band performing on stage. He and his band are IN MID-GROOVE. A BEAUTIFUL BLACK DANCER DANCES ON A RISER BEHIND THE BAND.
 Vicki Anderson, sings backup.
James Brown:「That record come across. I mean it hit hard!!! Uhn!」

James Brown:「And slowly, the whole World knew who we were.」
narrator:James walks to each band member and places a twenty dollar bill in each of their pockets. They don't see the James who is talking directly to us.
 He straightens a band members tie. James turns to stage left and sees his son, Teddy Brown, dancing. He then gives Yvonne a wink who's also standing in the wings looking HOT.
James Brown:「See in showbusiness, you got two parts. You got the show and you got the business. And brother. (Deadly serious) You better believe. You looking at both.」

narrator:INT. OLYMPIA STAGE. SAME NIGHT.
 The crowd has left. A custodian roams the isles picking up trash. James and Bobby sit on the edge of an empty stage, laughing.
BOBBY:「You know what I think? After we put out my next solo album, I bet I could play Paris or the Apollo.」
narrator:James TUNES IN
JAMES BROWN:「How's that?」
BOBBY:「I was just saying when me and you put out my new record, I bet I could fill this place all myself. No problem.」
narrator:James stiffens at this comment.
JAMES BROWN:「What the hell you talking about? "Fill this place all myself"? "No problem?" You sayin' I'm slippin'?」
BOBBY BYRD:「No I don't think you slippin'.
 You James Brown. You ain't never slippin'. I was just...」
JAMES BROWN:「People copy me, Mr. Byrd. People gonna copy my moves till the earth goes dark. You understand? You think people are gonna buy that record like they buy my record? That what you sayin'?」
BOBBY:「No.」
JAMES BROWN:「Who you been tellin' this too? You been telling that to the Apollo?」
narrator:Bobby gets mad.
BOBBY:「No, James! I haven't told nobody but you. We were just talking. (MORE) 119
 I thought you be cool with that. You always been talking about... About... About... standin' on my own feet.」
JAMES BROWN:「Bobby, how you gone stand on your own feet? You just spent twenty years gettin' fat on a man's dollar. I produce a record for you and now it's gone to your head. You go talking big behind my back. You go sneaking round, raising heat off another man's name. We here, we doing something and you making plans sucker?」
narrator:Bobby gets more upset. He's using a tone with James we've never heard before.
BOBBY:「Shouting) I ain't told nobody or made any plans. We just talkin' about it. Now. That's it.」
James Brown:「I'm ashamed of you, Bobby. And you should be ashamed of you. Now you tryin' to run around with Vicki. Don't jive yourself bro'. Now, Vicki, she could fill this place.」

BOBBY:「Well, Vicki ain't yours. So, Vicki and me ain't none of your damn business.」
narrator:James smiles.
James Brown:「But she's been my business before.」

narrator:James sits next to his mother, on a couch, SMILING Happily, having the moment documented. She is smiling too. Bobby and other guests in the room watch the photographers.
 The photographer is ushered out of the room by Bobby Byrd.
James Brown:「Bobby? Get everybody out of here and wait outside.」
narrator:Bobby ushers the guests outside.
 James sits opposite his mother. She is very, very uncomfortable but trying to appear relaxed.
SUSIE:「I was on the Subway last week, and the two kids next to me was arguing who was the best, James Brown or Little Willy John. And this one boy, he was saying "James Brown the best" "There ain't no one better than James Brown", he got so mad I thought he was gonna whup this other boy. And then-」
narrator:James holds up his hand. She falls silent.
James Brown:「Why tonight? (She stops, her face falls.) Why you come here?」
narrator:She starts to flap.
SUSIE:「Well. Sugar, I live over in Brooklyn... and you my baby and you here playin' the Apollo.」

James Brown:「I don't want you to feel proud. I ain't your sugar. I ain't your baby. Not then. Not now. And I don't want you to tell anyone you my momma, because you and me know that ain't true.」
SUSIE:「Your daddy beat me. Beat you. I stayed because I loved you. I didn't know nothin' about being a wife. Nothin' about being a mother. I did the best I could. I did that. (MORE) 122
 I left because I loved you. I ain't had nothing to make no other choice. I was shamed. I was.」
narrator:He holds up his hand.
James Brown:「See I thought about this. I know it weren't personal and that's why this ain't neither. It turned out fine. I didn't need you. I looked after James Brown. Made sure he was OK. No-one else. No-one help me.」
narrator:She starts to cry.
SUSIE:「I never wanted to be a momma. But I carried you, boy. I didn't know nothin' about being a wife or being a momma. But I carried you and I loved you when you were in me. I chose you. I chose you.」
James Brown:「Don't cry. Don't cry. Don't cry.」

narrator:He stiffly offers her a handkerchief.
James Brown:「Clean yourself up. That's it.」
narrator:James softens.
James Brown:「I'm James Brown. And James Brown don't need nothing. Don't need no- body.」
narrator:Susie looks back a James. She doesn't move.
James Brown:「Why are you really here? What do you want?」
narrator:She shakes her head, searching his face. James looks back unmoved. James reaches in is pocket and pulls out some money. He hands it to her.
James Brown:「Here. That's a hundred dollars. I'm sorry but I'm gonna ask you to leave now. 123」

narrator:INT. CORRIDOR.
 Bobby waits. The door opens, and Susie comes out, tears in her eyes. She looks wildly into Bobby's face who has clearly heard everything. She runs off down the corridor.
 Bobby looks through the open door. Devastated, James sits staring at the floor. He looks up at Bobby.
James Brown:「Tell Pop to make sure she's taken care of. Whatever she needs.」

narrator:INT./ EXT. PICKUP TRUCK/ GRAVEL PITTS. DAY.
 James sits staring straight ahead. Breathing hard.
James Brown:「I'm OK. I'm OK. I'm OK.」

narrator:END FLASHBACK - BACK AT THE MIRROR
 152
 James pulls back from the mirror and splashes some water on his face and begins to press his hair down with his hands. He breathes harder and harder as he assesses his life.
 He stands straight and proud. Still looking in the mirror, he begins to chant quietly to himself.
James Brown:「James Brown, James Brown.
 James Brown, James brown. 126」

narrator:A
 EXT. STREET. BEHIND TRUCK. MOMENTS LATER.
 153A
 Bobby pulls out a pack of cigarettes from his pocket as he walks behind the truck. He pulls out a smoke and lights up.
 Bobby soon notices a Limo parked on the other side of the street. He stares at it for a while. The door opens. James Browns gets out of the Limo and waves.
 Bobby watches as James approaches. He's clean and sober in a suit looking sharp. James' appearance and presence throws Bobby.
BOBBY:「Mr. Brown.」
narrator:They shake hands.
James Brown:「What you doing out here in your robe, Mr. Byrd? 127」

BOBBY:「What? Oh. See, I snuck out for a smoke. I s'posed to quit. Vicki don't know.」
narrator:He laughs. They both do.
James Brown:「Well I ain't gone tell.」
narrator:They laugh a little. When they stop, there's a long lull.
James Brown:「Well I was just passing. Playing a show tonight at the Omni.」
BOBBY:「Right.」
James Brown:「Say. Maybe you and Vicki could come along. We got a great new horn section. Tight. We getting there.」
BOBBY:「We got plans tonight. Vicki got family coming over.」
James Brown:「Well you think about it. See what Vicki say.」
narrator:Bobby laughs. Rumbled.
BOBBY:「Yeah. She still in charge.」
narrator:They both chuckle at this. A nod of understanding. But then:
BOBBY:「You look well.. Man. I ain't seen you since-」
James Brown:「Teddy's funeral.」

James Brown:「You know, Bobby, they still don't know what happened to Teddy and that boy. Those boys weren't drinkin' or doin' drugs.」
BOBBY:「I know, James.」
James Brown:「No sir. Nothin' like that. He was a good boy. The car just hit that bridge head on. We ain't ever gone know how or why. They say he didn't feel a thing.」
narrator:Bobby nods.
BOBBY:「That's good, James.」
James Brown:「But we brought him back to Augusta didn't we? Got him home then sent him on to the Lord.」
BOBBY:「We did, Mr. Brown.
 We did.」
narrator:James stands there, fixedly. The Pool cleaner comes from around the truck, breaks the tension.
 POOL CLEANER OK. Mr. Byrd. I fixed your problem. I'll be back in the Spring to open her up.
BOBBY:「I'm much obliged. Do I have to-」
narrator:POOL CLEANER No no. We'll send the bill on. Well that's that. Good day Gentlemen.
 He gets in his truck and pulls away leaving Bobby and James standing in an awkward silence.

James Brown:「Look at that. We got white folk cleaning our pool. Come a long way huh, Mr. Byrd?」

narrator:Suddenly this is awkward. For both of them. Bobby defuses it:
James Brown:「You still makin' the steps, Mr. Byrd?」
BOBBY:「Here and there.」
James Brown:「You hurtin' a little in the hips?」
BOBBY:「A little. You?」
James Brown:「Not me. I just get stronger ever day. Gettin' better every day.」
narrator:James pulls out two concert tickets from his jacket and hands them to Bobby.
James Brown:「Maybe you and Vicki got some friends who could come tonight. Good seats, too.」
narrator:James turns sharply and walks back to the Limo. He sings to himself.
James Brown:「(Sings) Oh, Mary Don't You Weep...」
narrator:Bobby listens. And remembers.
James Brown:「(Sings) Tell Martha Not to Moan.」
narrator:He stops and turns to Bobby.
James Brown:「What's the next line?」

BOBBY:「See you around Mr. Brown.」
narrator:Bobby turns.
 James watches as he walks back to his house.
James Brown:「See you around Mr. Byrd.」

narrator:FLASHBACK - INT. JAIL CELL. 1949. DAY.
 JAMES AGED SIXTEEN, SITS ALONE, staring at the wall. Incanting his name, quietly. Intently.
James Brown:「Quietly) JAMES BROWN JAMES BROWN, JAMES BROWN, JAMES BROWN... 131」

narrator:INT. DRESSING ROOM.
 SLOWLY James stands, buttons his jacket and opens the dressing room door.
James Brown:「James Brown. James Brown. James Brown.」

narrator:INT. THE STAGE.
 James steps forward and strides across the stage to the mic stand.
CROWD:「JAMES BROWN JAMES BROWN, JAMES BROWN, JAMES BROWN.」
narrator:He looks out over the crowd. Then... He begins to sing a capella. He stares right us.
James Brown:「Try me. Try me. Darlin tell me. I need you. Try me. Try me. And your love will always be true」
narrator:The crowd goes silent.
 All we hear is Mr. Brown's soulful voice.
James Brown:「Oh I need you (I need you) Hold me. Hold me. I want you right here by my side. Hold me. Hold me. And your love we won't hide」
