narrator:INT. HOPPS'S APARTMENT BUILDING, HALLWAY - DAY
 DHARMA ARMADILLO, Hopps's older ARMADILLO LANDLADY, opens the door to Hopps' new apartment-- which we can't see yet.
 DHARMA ARMADILLO And welcome to the Grand Pangolin Arms. "Luxury Apartments with Charm."
 Hopps discovers the room is a tiny, crappy studio apartment.
 DHARMA ARMADILLO Complimentary de-lousing once a month. (handing over the keys) Don't lose your key.
Judy Hoops:「Thank you!」

narrator:As Dharma leaves, Hopps' volatile, artsy NEIGHBORS, KUDU and ORYX POOTOSSER, pass by in the hall.
Judy Hoops:「Oh hi, I'm Judy! Your new neighbor!」
narrator:KUDU POOTOSSER Yeah? Well we're loud.
ORYX POOTOSSER:「Don't expect us to apologize for it.」
narrator:Before Hopps can respond, they're gone, leaving Hopps alone. She looks around... blank-faced so it's tough to read her emotions.
Judy Hoops:「Greasy walls... rickety bed... 16.」

narrator:KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.) Shut up!
ORYX POOTOSSER:「O.S.) You shut up!」
narrator:KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.) No! You shut up!
Judy Hoops:「Crazy neighbors... (big smile as she flops on the bed) I love it!」

narrator:INT. ZOOTOPIA POLICE DEPARTMENT - MORNING
 Utter mayhem. COPS parade PERPS through the lobby-- one is wearing cuffs and a plastic (not scary) safety muzzle, he complains to the BEAR COP marching him by.
 LEOPARD C'mon! He bared his teeth first.
 We land at the front desk and find CLAWHAUSER, a PUDGY CHEETAH COP, happily eating a bowl of Lucky Chomps cereal.
Judy Hoops:「O.C.) Scuse me! Down here? Hi.」
narrator:Clawhauser leans over the desk to find Hopps.
CLAWHAUSER:「O-M goodness! They really did hire a bunny. What?! (MORE) 17.
 I gotta tell ya, you are even cuter than I thought you'd be.」
Judy Hoops:「a little wince) Ooo, uh, you probably didn't know, but a bunny can call another bunny "cute," but when other animals do it, it's a little...」
CLAWHAUSER:「gasps, realizing) I am so sorry. Me, Benjamin Clawhauser, the guy everyone thinks is just a flabby, donut-loving cop, stereotyping you...?」

Judy Hoops:「It's okay-- oh, you've actually you've actually got a-- there's a-- in your neck-- the fold-- the-- there's--」
narrator:Clawhauser removes a small donut from under some neck fat.
CLAWHAUSER:「Oh, there you went, you little dickens!」
narrator:He crams the donut into his mouth.
Judy Hoops:「awkwardly laughing) I should get to roll call, so... which way do I?」
CLAWHAUSER:「Oh! Bullpen's over there to the left.」
Judy Hoops:「Great, thank you!」

narrator:INT. ZPD - BULLPEN - CONTINUOUS
 Hopps enters the bullpen, by far the smallest animal in the room: rhinos, buffalo, hippos, elephants, etc. Hopps holds her paw out to a tough RHINO, MCHORN.
Judy Hoops:「Hey. Officer Hopps. You ready to make the world a better place?」

BOGO:「Officers Grizzoli, Fangmeyer, Delgato-- your teams take Missing Mammals from the Rainforest District. Officers McHorn, Rhinowitz, Wolfard, your teams take Sahara Square. Officers Higgins, Snarlov, Trunkaby: Tundratown. And finally, our first bunny, Officer Hopps.」
narrator:Hopps sits up, expectant but steely. Bogo looks at the final case file in his hand. He takes a dramatic breath, then:
BOGO:「Parking Duty. Dismissed!」
Judy Hoops:「Parking duty? (runs after Bogo) Uh, Chief? Chief Bogo?」
narrator:Bogo looks around... then down to find Hopps.
Judy Hoops:「Sir, you said there were 14 missing mammal cases?」
BOGO:「So.」
Judy Hoops:「So I can handle one. You probably forgot, but I was top of my class at the academy.」
BOGO:「Didn't forget. Just don't care.」
Judy Hoops:「Sir, I'm not just some "token" bunny.」
BOGO:「Well, then writing a hundred tickets a day should be easy.」
narrator:He goes, slamming the door behind him. Judy stomps her foot.

Judy Hoops:「tickets...? I'm not gonna write 100 tickets... I'm gonna write 200 tickets! (MORE) 20.
 (then, to the closed door) Before noon!」

narrator:INT. / EXT. METER MAID CART - DAY
 Hopps dons a vest, buckles her seat belt, floors the pedal and... takes off at 2 miles an hour. Which leads to a
 PARKING METER MONTAGE --
 Hopps zooms past a row of cars, marking their tires. Cruising the streets, her super-sensitive ears hear a meter ding. She slams her brakes-- then proudly issues Ticket #1.
 Ding! Another meter goes off. Then another. And another. She's on a roll. She looks down at her counter. It's at 200.
Judy Hoops:「Boom! 200 tickets before noon.」
narrator:A final ding... Reveal: her own traffic cart is at an expired meter. Hopps rolls her eyes and writes herself a ticket.
Judy Hoops:「201.」
narrator:As Hopps puts the ticket on her windshield, she hears a voice across the street:
 TRUCK DRIVER (O.S.) Hey, watch where you're going, Fox!
 Hopps looks across the street to see... a RED FOX. Hopps looks at him, a little suspicious.
 The Fox looks around, then slinks into a café. Hopps runs across the street and peeks in the window. It's an ice cream parlor, but... the FOX IS GONE.

Judy Hoops:「sotto) Where'd he go...」

narrator:JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. Listen, I don't know what you're doing skulking around during daylight hours, but I don't want any trouble in here... So hit the road.
 Hopps unsnaps the holster of her PINK FOX REPELLENT.
NICK:「I'm not looking for any trouble either, sir. I simply want to buy a Jumbo Pop for my little boy.」
narrator:Ready for action, slowly creeping forward, Hopps's expression changes when she sees that Nick is with his TODDLER SON.
NICK:「(to the boy) You want the red or the blue, pal?」
narrator:Staring at the cute little boy, Hopps is embarrassed by her impulse. She snaps the Repellent holster and begins to leave.
Judy Hoops:「disgusted with herself) I'm such a...」
narrator:JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. Oh come on, kid. Back up. Listen, buddy, what? There aren't any fox ice cream joints in your part of town?
 Hopps suddenly stops. Her ears go up and she turns around.

NICK:「Uh, no no, there are. There are. It's just, my boy-- (tousles boy's hair) --this goofy little stinker-- he loves all things elephant. Wants to be one when he grows up.」
narrator:The boy gives a TOOT-TOOT with his toy elephant trunk.
NICK:「Isn't it adorable? Who the heck am I to crush his little dreams, huh? Right?」
narrator:JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. Look, you probably can't read, fox but the sign says... (MORE) 22.
 JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. (slowly reads SIGN, belittling) WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE TO ANYONE. So beat it.
 ELEPHANT You're holding up the line.
 The little fox is about to cry, when Hopps walks up.
Judy Hoops:「O.S.) Hello? Excuse me?」
narrator:JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. Hey, you're gonna have to wait your turn like everyone else, metermaid.
Judy Hoops:「Actually... (revealing badge) I'm an officer. Just had a quick question. Are your customers aware they're getting snot and mucous with their cookies and cream?」

narrator:An ELEPHANT COUPLE overhear and spit out their ice cream.
 JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. What are you talkin' about?
Judy Hoops:「Well, I don't wanna cause you any trouble, but I believe scooping ice cream with an un-gloved trunk is a Class 3 Health Code Violation...」
narrator:A guilty EMPLOYEE releases a scoop from their trunk.
Judy Hoops:「...Which is kind of a big deal. Of course-- I could let you off with a warning if you were to glove those trunks and, I don't know, finish selling this nice dad and his son a... what was it?」
NICK:「A Jumbo Pop. Please.」
Judy Hoops:「A Jumbo Pop. 23.」

narrator:JERRY JUMBEAUX, JR. (stews for a beat, then) Fifteen dollars.
NICK:「Thank you so much. (to Hopps) Thank you. (then, digs for wallet) Oh no, are you kidding me? I don't have my wallet. I'd lose my head if it weren't attached to my neck, that's the truth. Oh boy, I'm sorry pal. Gotta be about the worst birthday ever. Please don't be mad at me. (kisses him, to Hopps) Thanks, anyway.」
narrator:He turns to go. Hopps slaps some money on the counter.
Judy Hoops:「Keep the change.」

narrator:EXT. JUMBEAUX'S CAFE - MOMENTS LATER
 Hopps has the Toddler's hand. Nick holds a HUGE JUMBO-POP.
NICK:「Officer, I can't thank you enough. So kind, really, can I pay you back?」
Judy Hoops:「Oh no, my treat-- it just-- y'know, it burns me up to see folks with such backward attitudes toward foxes. I just wanna say, you're a great dad and just a... a real articulate fella.」
NICK:「Ah, well, that is high praise. It's rare that I find someone so non- patronizing... Officer...」
Judy Hoops:「totally misses his dig) Hopps. Mr...」

Judy Hoops:「to Toddler) And you little guy, you want to be an elephant when you grow up... you be an elephant-- because this is Zootopia, anyone can be anything.」
narrator:Hopps puts a STICKER BADGE on the boy's chest.
NICK:「Ah, boy, I tell him that all the time. All right here ya go-- (hands him popsicle) Two paws. Yeah. Oh, look at that smile, that's a happy birthday smile! All right, give her a little bye-bye toot toot.」
narrator:The kid toots.
Judy Hoops:「Toot, toot!」
NICK:「Bye now!」
Judy Hoops:「Goodbye!」

narrator:EXT. SAHARA SQUARE - DAY
 Hopps continues to write tickets. As she leaves a ticket on another car, she can see a few blocks away. It's NICK and his KID. Hopps gives them a wave, but they don't notice her.
Judy Hoops:「Oh! Hey, little toot toot--」

narrator:EXT. OUTSIDE LITTLE RODENTIA - MOMENTS LATER
 Nick hands Finnick a wad of cash.
NICK:「There you go. Way to work that diaper, big guy. Hey, no kiss bye-bye for daddy?」
narrator:FINNICK (super-deep voice) You kiss me tomorrow, I'll bite your face off. Ciao.
 As Finnick drives off in his van, BLARING LOUD FRENCH RAP MUSIC. We discover HOPPS behind it, and she is not happy.
Judy Hoops:「Well. I stood up for you, and you lied to me. You liar! 26.」

NICK:「It's called a hustle, sweetheart. And I'm not the liar, he is.」
narrator:Nick points behind Hopps. She turns... no one. She turns back. Nick is gone-- his tail disappears around a corner.
Judy Hoops:「Hey!」
narrator:Nick walks on, calmly. Hopps hurries up to him.
Judy Hoops:「Alright, slick Nick, you're under arrest.」
NICK:「Really, for what?」
Judy Hoops:「Gee I don't know, how `bout selling food without a permit, transporting undeclared commerce across borough lines, false advertising...」
narrator:Nick smiles and produces those documents.
NICK:「Permit. Receipt of declared commerce. And I didn't falsely advertise anything. Take care.」
Judy Hoops:「You told that mouse the popsicle sticks were redwood!」
NICK:「That's right. "Red wood." With a space in the middle. Wood that is red. (then) You can't touch me, Carrots, I been doing this since I was born.」
Judy Hoops:「You're gonna wanna refrain from calling me Carrots...」

Judy Hoops:「isn't it obvious?) Ah, no. Podunk is in Deerbrooke County, and I grew up in Bunnyburrow.」
NICK:「Okay. Tell me if this story sounds familiar: (harsher now, rapidly) Naïve little hick with good grades and big ideas decides, "Hey lookit me, I'm gonna move to Zootopia-- where Predators and Prey live in harmony and sing Kumbaya!" Only to find-- whoopsie, we don't all get along. And that dream of becoming a big city cop? Double whoopsie! She's a meter maid. And whoopsie number threesie-- NO ONE cares about her or her dreams. And soon enough those dreams die and our bunny sinks into emotional and literal squalor living in a box under a bridge. Til finally she has no choice but to go back home with that cute, fuzzy wuzzy little tail between her legs to become-- you're from Bunnyburrow, is that what you said?-- so how `bout a carrot farmer... That sound about right?」
narrator:She's speechless-- How did he get my number so quickly? A RHINO almost crushes her.
NICK:「Be careful now, it won't just be your dreams getting crushed.」

Judy Hoops:「ever-so-slightly rattled) Hey! Hey! No one tells me what I can or can't be! Especially not some jerk who never had the guts to try to be anything more than a popsicle hustler!」
NICK:「Alright look, everyone comes to Zootopia thinking they can be anything they want. Well you can't. You can only be what you are. (points to himself) Sly fox. (MORE) 28.
 (points to her) Dumb bunny.」
Judy Hoops:「I am NOT a dumb bunny.」

narrator:INT. HOPPS'S APARTMENT, HALLWAY - EVENING
 CLOSE ON HER WELCOME MAT: Hopps wipes off her cement covered feet. Then she enters
 THE APARTMENT --
 Hopps turns on the radio. Everybody Hurts plays. She changes the station. A sadder song comes on. She changes the station repeatedly, each song progressively sadder. Finally, she lands on a treacly instrumental that will score the scene.
 She puts in a microwave dinner: CARROTS FOR ONE. Hopps takes her food (A SINGLE CARROT) and sits at a small table.
 Her phone rings. INSERT: MOM &amp; DAD FACETIME. Hopps shakes her head, sighs, then puts on a fake smile and answers.
Judy Hoops:「Oh hey, it's my parents!」
BONNIE HOPPS:「Aw there she is! Hi sweetheart!」
narrator:THE FACETIME cuts between Bonnie on her phone. Stu will pop in and out of frame.
STU HOPPS:「Hey there, Jude the Dude! How was your first day on the force?」
Judy Hoops:「It was real great. 29.」

BONNIE HOPPS:「Yeah? Everything you ever hoped?」
Judy Hoops:「Mmm. Absolutely. And more. Everyone's so nice. And I feel like I'm really making a difference--」
STU HOPPS:「pops head into frame) Hey, wait a second. Holy cripes, Bonnie! Look at that!」
BONNIE HOPPS:「a discovery) Oh my sweet heaven-- Judy, are you a meter maid?」
narrator:Hopps is still wearing her vest, and her hat is on the chair.
Judy Hoops:「panicked) Oh this? No! Oh, no no! This is just a temporary thing--」
BONNIE HOPPS:「It's the safest job on the force!」
STU HOPPS:「Ah, she's not a real cop! Our prayers have been answered!」
BONNIE HOPPS:「Glorious day!」
STU HOPPS:「Meter maid, meter maid!」
Judy Hoops:「Dad! Dad--」
STU HOPPS:「Meter maid, meter maid!」
Judy Hoops:「DAD! You know what-- it's been a really long day, I should really--」

BONNIE HOPPS:「Bye bye!」
Judy Hoops:「eye roll) Buh-bye.」
narrator:She hangs up, defeated. The SELF-PITYING MUSIC comes up full.
ORYX POOTOSSER:「O.S.) Hey Bunny! Turn down that depressing music!」
narrator:KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.) Leave the meter maid alone! Didn't you hear her conversation? She feels like a failure!
 Judy turns off the music.
ORYX POOTOSSER:「O.S.) Oh, shut up!」
narrator:KUDU POOTOSSER (O.S.) You shut up!
ORYX POOTOSSER:「O.S.) You shut up!」
Judy Hoops:「quietly to herself) Tomorrow's another day...」

narrator:INT. METER MAID CART
 After what has clearly been a series of these encounters, Hopps repeatedly bangs her head on the steering wheel.
Judy Hoops:「less convinced with each utterance) I am a real cop. I am a real cop. I am a real cop. I am a real cop...」
narrator:FRANTIC PIG (O.S.) Hey!
 Suddenly, a PIG bangs on the cart's window. Hopps startles.
 FRANTIC PIG You! Bunny!
Judy Hoops:「rote) Sir, if you have a grievance, you may contest your citation in traffic court.」
narrator:FRANTIC PIG What're you talking about? My shop! It was just robbed! Look, he's getting away! Well are you a cop or not?
 Hopps sees a WEASEL running with a bag of stolen goods.
Judy Hoops:「snapping out of it) Oh, yes! Yes! Don't worry, sir, I got this!」

Judy Hoops:「Stop! Stop in the name of the law!」
DUKE WEASELTON:「Catch me if you can, Cottontail!」
narrator:The chase is on. McHorn screeches up in his cop car.
DUKE WEASELTON:「Whoa. Coming through!」
narrator:MCHORN This is Officer McHorn, we got a 10- 31.
 Hopps slides across his hood.
Judy Hoops:「I got dibs! Officer Hopps, I am in pursuit!」

narrator:EXT. LITTLE RODENTIA - CONTINUOUS
 Hopps emerges in Little Rodentia, teeming with tiny rodents.
Judy Hoops:「Stop!」
narrator:Hopps spots the Weasel, who's using two mouse cars as skates. She chases after him, smashing through Little Rodentia. As the Weasel jumps off the top of a mouse building, he knocks it over, but Hopps is able to save them from crashing.
 Resuming the chase, Hopps jumps off the building-- landing precariously in the midst of a large group of mice.
Judy Hoops:「Oh! Oh, sorry! Coming through! `Scuse me! `Scuse me. Pardon... 33.」

narrator:Hopps locates Weaselton, who's safely making his escape on the top of a tiny mouse train.
DUKE WEASELTON:「Bon voyage, flat foot!」
narrator:But Hopps won't quit. She takes a short cut and knocks him off the train. Rodents scream and run amidst the chaos.
Judy Hoops:「Hey! Stop right there!」
narrator:The Weasel throws an ornamental donut at Hopps.
DUKE WEASELTON:「Have a donut, coppah!」
narrator:But the donut misses and rolls towards some SHREWS coming out of "Mousies."
FRU FRU SHREW:「Ohmygawd, did you see those leopard print jeggings? (sees the donut about to kill her) Aaaaaaaaaaaagh!」
narrator:But at the last second... Hopps stops it! Deep breath...
Judy Hoops:「I love your hair.」

narrator:Just then: BAM! The Weasel (in donut) rolls through the front door and hits Clawhauser's desk. It settles, revealing Hopps.
Judy Hoops:「I popped the weasel!」

narrator:INT. ZPD - BOGO'S OFFICE - A LITTLE LATER
 Hopps sits in a big chair in front of Bogo, like a kid in the principal's office. Bogo looks over a report.
BOGO:「Abandoning your post, inciting a scurry, reckless endangerment of rodents... but to be fair, you did stop a master criminal from stealing two dozen... moldy onions.」
Judy Hoops:「Hate to disagree with you, sir, but those aren't onions. Those are a crocus varietal called Midnicampum Holicithias. They're a Class C Botanical, sir. I grew up in a family where plant husbandry was kind of a thing.」
BOGO:「Shut your tiny mouth, now.」
Judy Hoops:「Sir, I got the bad guy. That's my job.」

narrator:CLAWHAUSER(INTERCOM) Okay, I just didn't know if you wanted to take it this time, she seems really upset--
BOGO:「Not now!」
Judy Hoops:「Sir, I don't want to be a meter maid... I wanna be a real cop.」
BOGO:「Do you think the Mayor asked what I wanted when he assigned you to me?」
Judy Hoops:「But sir, if you--」

BOGO:「Ma'am, our detectives are very busy.」
narrator:MRS. OTTERTON Please. There's got to be somebody to find my Em.
BOGO:「Mrs. Otterton--」
Judy Hoops:「O.S.) I will find him.」
narrator:Mrs. Otterton races over to Hopps and gives her a big hug of relief. Bogo looks to Hopps, ready to explode.
 MRS. OTTERTON Oh, thank you! Bless you, bless you little bunny! (hands picture of family) Take this. Find my Emmitt. Bring him home to me and my babies. Please?
 Bogo grunts and ushers Mrs. Otterton back outside.
BOGO:「Mrs. Otterton? Please wait out here.」
narrator:MRS. OTTERTON Of course. Oh, thank you both so much.
BOGO:「One second.」
narrator:He closes the door and turns to Hopps, furious.
BOGO:「You're fired.」
Judy Hoops:「What? Why?!」

narrator:Bogo opens the door, to find... Bellwether, hugging Mrs. Otterton.
BELLWETHER:「I just heard Officer Hopps is taking the case!」
BOGO:「Assistant Mayor Bellwether...」
BELLWETHER:「texting) The Mammal Inclusion Initiative is really starting to pay off! Mayor Lionheart is just gonna be so jazzed!」
BOGO:「No! No, let's not tell the mayor just yet--」
BELLWETHER:「And I sent it, and it is done, so I did do that. All right, well I'd say the case is in good hands! Us little guys really need to stick together! Right?」
Judy Hoops:「Like glue!」
BELLWETHER:「amused laughter) Good one! Just call me if you ever need anything, okay? You've always got a friend at City Hall, Judy. Alright, bye bye!」
Judy Hoops:「Thank you, ma'am.」
narrator:Bogo forces a smile and closes the door, even more pissed.
BOGO:「I will give you 48 hours.」
Judy Hoops:「YES!」

Judy Hoops:「Okay.」
BOGO:「But, you strike out-- you resign.」
narrator:Hopps is taken aback by that for a moment... then nods.
Judy Hoops:「Oh, uh... okay... deal.」

narrator:INT. ZPD - DESK AREA - A LITTLE LATER
 Clawhauser places the Otterton file on his desk for Hopps.
CLAWHAUSER:「Here ya go! One missing otter!」
narrator:Hopps opens the file. It's a single piece of paper. What?
Judy Hoops:「That's it?!」
CLAWHAUSER:「Yikes! That is the smallest case file I've ever seen! Leads: none, witnesses: none-- and you're not in the computer system yet, so resources: none. (chuckles) I hope you didn't stake your career on cracking this one.」
narrator:Clawhauser takes a bite of his donut and the crumbs land on a picture in the file, drawing Hopps's attention to it.
Judy Hoops:「Okay. (deep breath) "Last known sighting..."」
narrator:Hopps brushes away the crumbs, revealing a picture of Mr. Otterton on the street. Clawhauser annoyingly slurps from a soda bottle. Hopps squints at the picture, intrigued.
Judy Hoops:「Can I just borrow-- (grabbing soda bottle) Thank you. 39.」

narrator:Hopps uses Clawhauser's bottle to enlarge the picture. She sees Mr. Otterton holding a PAWPSICLE.
Judy Hoops:「Pawpsicle.」
CLAWHAUSER:「The murder weapon!」
Judy Hoops:「Get your pawpsicle...」
CLAWHAUSER:「Yeah, `cause that... What does that mean?」
Judy Hoops:「It means I... have a lead.」

narrator:EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - LATER
 We find Nick pushing a BABY STROLLER. HOPPS zooms up in her traffic cart, smiling.
Judy Hoops:「Hi! Hello? It's me again!」
NICK:「Hey, it's Officer Toot Toot.」
Judy Hoops:「fake laugh, humoring him) Ha-ha-ho, no actually it's Officer Hopps, and I'm here to ask you some questions about a case.」

Judy Hoops:「This is important, sir. I think your ten dollars worth of popsicles can wait.」
NICK:「I make 200 bucks a day, fluff. 365 days a year, since I was 12, and time is money, hop along.」
Judy Hoops:「Please, just look at the picture.」
narrator:Hopps holds up the traffic cam picture of the Otter.
Judy Hoops:「You sold Mr. Otterton that popsicle right? Do you know him?」
NICK:「I know everybody. And I also know that somewhere there's a toy store missing its stuffed animal, so why don't you get back to your box.」
narrator:Hopps' ears droop.
Judy Hoops:「Fine. Then we'll have to do this the hard way.」
narrator:She puts a boot on the stroller.
NICK:「Did you just boot my stroller?」
Judy Hoops:「Nicholas Wilde, you are under arrest.」
NICK:「For what? Howting your feewings?」
Judy Hoops:「Felony tax evasion.」
narrator:Nick smile drops a bit.

Judy Hoops:「Yeah. 200 dollars a day... 365 days a year... since you were 12, that's two decades, so times twenty... (calculating) (MORE) 41.
 ...which is one million four- hundred sixty thousand-- I think, I mean I am just a dumb bunny, but we are good at multiplying-- anyway, according to your tax forms... (presenting the forms) ...you reported let me see here: zero. Unfortunately, lying on a federal form is a punishable offense. Five years jail time.」
NICK:「Well, it's my word against yours.」
narrator:Hopps clicks a button on her CARROT PEN, which SPEAKS!
NICK:「ON CARROT PEN RECORDER) "200 bucks a day, fluff. 365 days a year, since I was 12."」
Judy Hoops:「Actually, it's your word against yours. And if you want this pen, you're going to help me find this poor missing otter or the only place you'll be selling popsicles is the prison cafeteria. (dramatic smirk) It's called a hustle, sweetheart.」

narrator:Nick is utterly speechless.
 FINNICK She hustled you. (rude laugh) She hustled you good! You're a cop now Nick, you're gonna need one of these! Have fun working with the fuzz!
 THWAP! Finnick slaps his JUNIOR OFFICER STICKER on Nick.
Judy Hoops:「Start talking.」
NICK:「I don't know where he is. I only saw where he went.」
Judy Hoops:「Great, let's go. 42.」

NICK:「It's not exactly a place for a cute little bunny.」
Judy Hoops:「Don't call me cute. (forceful) Get in the car.」

narrator:INT. THE MYSTIC SPRING OASIS - LATER
 The Mystic Spring Oasis is new agey, full of incense, etc. A meditating HIPPIE YAK sits with flies buzzing around his head, matching the tone of his ohm. Hopps enters with Nick and they approach the yak (still with his eyes closed).
YAX THE HIPPIE YAK:「Oooooooooohmmmmmmmm. Oooooooooooohmmmmmm.」
Judy Hoops:「Hi, hello.」
narrator:The yak continues his incessant chanting.
Judy Hoops:「Um, hello? Hello? HELLO?!」
narrator:The yak finally shakes out of his trance and notices Hopps.
Judy Hoops:「Hello! My name is--」
YAX THE HIPPIE YAK:「Ooo, you know, I'm gonna hit the pause button right there, `cause we're all good on Bunny Scout Cookies.」
Judy Hoops:「Uh, no... I'm Officer Hopps, ZPD. I'm looking for a missing mammal, Emmitt Otterton. Right here-- (shows photo) --who may have frequented this establishment.」

YAX THE HIPPIE YAK:「AH-CHOO! (flies go everywhere) Yeah, Ol' Emmitt! Haven't seen him in a couple weeks. But hey, you should talk to his yoga instructor, I'd be happy to take you back.」
Judy Hoops:「Oh, thank you so much, I'd appreciate that more than you can imagine. It would be such a big-- (scream) You are naked!」
narrator:The Yak comes around the counter and he IS naked.
YAX THE HIPPIE YAK:「Huh? Oh for sure, we're a naturalist club.」
NICK:「Yeah, in Zootopia anyone can be anything. These guys... they be naked.」
narrator:Nick grins, Hopps isn't pleased.
YAX THE HIPPIE YAK:「Nangi's just on the other side of the pleasure pool.」
narrator:The Yak opens the doors to a POOL AREA, with tons of naked animals sunning themselves, playing in the pool, etc. Hopps' eyes nearly pop out of her head. Nick leans in.
NICK:「Does this make you uncomfortable? Because, if so, there's no shame in calling it quits.」
Judy Hoops:「Yes there is.」

narrator:NANGI Nope.
Judy Hoops:「You didn't happen to catch the license plate number, did you?」
YAX:「Oh, for sure. It was 29THD03.」
Judy Hoops:「Wow, this is a lot of great info, thank you.」

narrator:EXT. SAHARA SQUARE - MOMENTS LATER
 Nick and Hopps emerge.
NICK:「Well, I had a ball. You are welcome for the clue. And seeing as how any moron can run a plate, I will take that pen and bid you adieu.」
narrator:As Nick reaches to take it, Hopps realizes something and leaves him hanging.
Judy Hoops:「The plate... I can't run a plate... (frustrated grunt) I'm not in the system yet.」
NICK:「Give me the pen please.」
narrator:Hopps gets an idea...
Judy Hoops:「still withholding pen) What was it you said? "Any moron can run a plate?" Gosh... if only there were a moron around who were up to the task...」

Judy Hoops:「Not forever. Why, I only have 36 hours left to solve this case. So can you run the plate or not?」

narrator:EXT. DMV - LATER
 They arrive at the DMV, the "Department of Mammal Vehicles."
NICK:「Flash is the fastest guy in there, you need something done, he's on it.」
Judy Hoops:「I hope so, we are really fighting the clock and every minute counts. (suddenly stops, alarmed) Wait. They're all sloths?!」
narrator:Unfortunately, every mammal working there is a... SLOTH. INSERT: SLOTH EMPLOYEES taking extraordinary amounts of time to do the simplest of tasks-- stapling, stamping, etc.
Judy Hoops:「You said this was going to be quick!」

narrator:Hopps looks like she's going to die.
NICK:「Hey Flash, I'd love ya to meet my friend-- uh, darlin' I've forgotten your name.」
Judy Hoops:「fake smile, to Nick) Officer Judy Hopps, ZPD. (shows badge) How are ya?」
narrator:Flash doesn't respond... then...
FLASH:「I am... doing... just...」
Judy Hoops:「Fine?」
FLASH:「as well... as... I can... be. What...」
NICK:「to an impatient Hopps) Hang in there.」
FLASH:「can I... do...」
Judy Hoops:「Well, I was hoping you could run a plate--」
FLASH:「For you...」
Judy Hoops:「Well, I was hoping you could--」
FLASH:「today.」
narrator:Hopps pauses-- cautiously optimistic that he's finished.
Judy Hoops:「Well, I was hoping you could run a plate for us. We are in a really big hurry.」

FLASH:「Sure.
 What's the... plate...」
Judy Hoops:「T--」
FLASH:「Number?」
narrator:Hopps takes a breath.
Judy Hoops:「THD03.」
FLASH:「several beats) 2... 9...」
Judy Hoops:「THD03.」
FLASH:「T.」
Judy Hoops:「HD03.」
FLASH:「H.」
Judy Hoops:「D03.」
FLASH:「D.」
Judy Hoops:「Mmhmm. 0, 3.」
FLASH:「」
Judy Hoops:「」
narrator:Flash is just about to say three, but...
NICK:「Hey Flash, wanna hear a joke?」
Judy Hoops:「No! 49.」

FLASH:「Sure.」
NICK:「What do you call a three humped camel?」
FLASH:「I don't... know... (beat) What... do... you call... a...」
Judy Hoops:「Three humped camel.」
FLASH:「Three humped... camel?」
NICK:「Pregnant.」
narrator:Nick laughs at his own joke. Flash doesn't react, then finally raises his head with a smile and....
FLASH:「Ha... ha... ha... ha...」
Judy Hoops:「Ha, ha, yes very funny, very funny, can we please just focus on the task--」
narrator:Flash slowly reaches over to the sloth next to him.
FLASH:「Hey... Priscilla...」
Judy Hoops:「Oh no!」
narrator:PRISCILLA Yes... Flash?
FLASH:「What... do...」
Judy Hoops:「No!」

Judy Hoops:「A three humped camel? Pregnant! Okay, great, we got it, please just- -」
FLASH:「Three... humped...」
Judy Hoops:「Aggggggghhhhhhh--」

narrator:INT. DMV - LATER
 A slow DOT-MATRIX printer spits out the address for CAR LICENSE PLATE NUMBER: 29THD03.
FLASH:「Here...」
Judy Hoops:「Yeah, yeah, yeah... thank you!」
FLASH:「You... go.」
Judy Hoops:「frantically reads) 29THD03-- it's registered to... Tundratown Limo Service? A limo took Otterton, and the limo's in Tundratown-- it's in Tundratown!」
NICK:「Way to hustle, bud. I love ya. I owe ya.」
Judy Hoops:「Hurry, we gotta beat the rush hour and--」

narrator:EXT. DMV - CONTINUOUS
 They go outside. It's night.
Judy Hoops:「IT'S NIGHT?!」

Judy Hoops:「Closed. Great.」
NICK:「Mm. And I will betcha you don't have a warrant to get in. Hm? Darn it. It's a bummer.」
narrator:There's a big gated parking lot which is chained shut... but they can see a few limos parking inside, covered in snow.
Judy Hoops:「You wasted the day on purpose.」
NICK:「Madam, I have a fake badge. I would never impede your pretend investigation.」
Judy Hoops:「It's not a pretend investigation! Look, see-- (showing picture of Otterton) See him? This otter is missing.」
NICK:「Well then they should have gotten a real cop to find him.」
Judy Hoops:「What is your problem? Does seeing me fail somehow make you feel better about your own sad, miserable life?」
narrator:Nick considers this for a moment.
NICK:「It does. One hundred percent. (then) Now... since you're sans warrant, I guess we're done?」
narrator:Hopps considers this and sighs, defeated.
Judy Hoops:「Fine. We are done. Here's your pen.」
narrator:Hopps then casually throws it over the fence behind her.

NICK:「Hey! (staring at the pen) (MORE) 52.
 First off, you throw like a bunny, second, you're a very sore loser. (starts to climb) See ya later, Officer Fluff, so sad this is over, I wish I could've helped more.」
narrator:Nick jumps down onto the other side, but just as he reaches for the pen, Hopps is suddenly right there and snatches it.
Judy Hoops:「The thing is, you don't need a warrant if you have probable cause, and I'm pretty sure I saw a shifty low-life climbing the fence, so you're helping plenty. Come on.」

narrator:EXT. PARKING LOT - MOMENTS LATER
 Hopps wipes snow off a back bumper: LICENSE PLATE 29THD03.
Judy Hoops:「THD03... this is it.」

narrator:INT. REFRIGOUSINE - MOMENTS LATER
 They open the big door, which looks like it belongs on a refrigerator. As they snoop around, Hopps uses tweezers to pick up a clump of fur.
Judy Hoops:「Polar bear fur.」
NICK:「opening glove box) OH MY GOD!」
Judy Hoops:「What? What?!」

NICK:「Carrots...? If your otter was here... he had a very bad day.」
narrator:Hopps' flashlight reveals CLAW MARKS covering the back seat.
Judy Hoops:「Those are... claw marks. You ever seen anything like this?」
NICK:「No.」
narrator:Through the fog on the floor Hopps spots a wallet.
Judy Hoops:「Oh, wait. Look.」
narrator:They slink back into the back seat. Hopps opens up the wallet to find a drivers license for Mr. Otterton.
Judy Hoops:「This is him. Emmitt Otterton. He was definitely here. What do you think happened?」
narrator:Nick spots a cocktail glass... it's etched with a "B."
NICK:「Well, now wait a minute... (then, suspicious) Polar bear fur... Rat Pack music... fancy cup... (suddenly terrified) I know whose car this is. We gotta go!」
Judy Hoops:「Why? Whose car is it?」
narrator:Nick tries to put everything back the way he found it.
NICK:「The most feared crime boss in Tundratown. They call him Mr. Big and he does not like me, so we gotta go!」

Judy Hoops:「I'm not leaving, this is a crime scene. 54.」

narrator:INT. POLAR BEAR CAR - MOMENTS LATER
 VROOM! A car whizzes by. Inside, Nick and Hopps sit nervously in the back seat, sandwiched between the polar bears-- one of whom casually scrolls through Zoogle Photos on his phone.
Judy Hoops:「What did you do that made Mr. Big so mad at you?」
NICK:「sotto) I uh, I may have sold him a very expensive wool rug... that was made from the fur of a... skunk's butt.」
Judy Hoops:「pissed at Nick) Oh, sweet cheese and crackers.」

Judy Hoops:「sotto) Is that Mr. Big?」
NICK:「sotto) No.」
narrator:Now an even BIGGER POLAR BEAR enters...
Judy Hoops:「What about him? Is that him?」
NICK:「sotto, frustrated) No.」
narrator:and then another. The BIGGEST POLAR BEAR yet...
Judy Hoops:「That's gotta be him.」

narrator:MR. BIG I trusted you, Nicky... I welcomed you into my home... we broke bread together... Gram-mama made you her cannoli. And how did you repay my generosity? With a rug... made from the butt of a skunk. A skunk butt rug. You disrespected me. You disrespected my gram-mama who I buried in that skunk butt rug. I told you never to show your face here again, but here you are, snooping around with this... (re. Hopps) What are you, a performer? What's with the costume?
Judy Hoops:「Sir, I am a c--」
NICK:「Mime! She is a mime. This mime, cannot speak. You can't speak if you're a mime.」
Judy Hoops:「No. I am a cop. And I'm on the Emmitt Otterton case, and my evidence puts him in your car, so intimidate me all you want, I'm going to find out what you did to that otter if it's the last thing I do.」

NICK:「Please! No no no! If you're mad at me about the rug I've got more rugs!」
narrator:Nick and Hopps are about to be dumped in, when--
FRU FRU SHREW:「Oh, Daddy, it's time for our dance. (sees them trying to kill Nick) What did we say? No icing anyone at my wedding!」
narrator:MR. BIG I have to, baby. Daddy has to. (to Thugs) Ice `em.
 Nick and Hopps scream and--
FRU FRU SHREW:「Wait. WAIT! She's the bunny that saved my life yesterday. From that giant donut.」
narrator:MR. BIG This bunny?
FRU FRU SHREW:「Yeah. Hi!」
Judy Hoops:「Hi. (warm, whisper) I love your dress.」

narrator:INT. WEDDING RECEPTION - A LITTLE LATER
 A lavish celebration full of arctic animals dancing. We find Nick and Hopps at the head table, next to Mr. Big. They all eat TINY pieces of WEDDING CAKE.
 MR. BIG Otterton is my florist. He's like a part of the family. He had something important he wanted to discuss. That's why I sent that car to pick him up. But he never arrived.
Judy Hoops:「Because he was attacked.」
narrator:MR. BIG No... he attacked.
Judy Hoops:「Otterton?」
narrator:MR. BIG Otterton. He went crazy. Ripped up the car, scared my driver half to death and disappeared into the night.
Judy Hoops:「He's a sweet little otter.」

narrator:EXT. "THE CANOPY" - MOMENTS LATER
 At the door of the DRIVER'S APARTMENT, they ring the bell.
Judy Hoops:「Mr. Manchas? Judy Hopps, ZPD. We just want to know what happened to Emmitt Otterton.」
narrator:Beat. The door creaks open.
 MANCHAS (MUFFLED INSIDE) You should be asking... what happened to me.
 The door opens to the chain, revealing... MANCHAS is... a HUGE JAGUAR-- but he's been badly beaten up. He has a black eye, and a scratches. Nick and Hopps are taken aback.
NICK:「Whoa. A teensy otter... did that?」
Judy Hoops:「What... happened?」

NICK:「Oh. So you know about the night howlers too? Good, good, good. Because the night howlers are exactly what we are here to talk about. (to Judy) Right?」
Judy Hoops:「Yep. So, uh, you just open the door and tell us what you know and we will tell you what we know. Okay?」
narrator:MANCHAS (considering) Okay.
 Manchas closes the door and starts to unlock a series of deadbolts. Judy gives Nick an impressed look.
Judy Hoops:「Clever fox.」
narrator:There's a commotion inside, followed by a scream.
Judy Hoops:「Mr. Manchas?」
narrator:The door creaks open just an inch. Nick and Hopps seem startled... Hopps slowly pushes the door open, revealing Manchas in the center of the room, hunched over and grunting.
NICK:「Buddy?」
Judy Hoops:「Are you... okay?」
narrator:Hopps looks at Manchas.
 RAAAGH!!! Manchas turns, right at them. His eyes are dilated, he's turned savage! He's poised to pounce on Nick and Hopps.
Judy Hoops:「Run. RUN!」

Judy Hoops:「I don't know!!」
narrator:Nick and Hopps run across the bridge. Manchas closes in.
Judy Hoops:「Jump!」
narrator:They jump off the bridge to a lower branch. They duck into a hollow log and Manchas follows them.
Judy Hoops:「(to Nick) Head down!」
narrator:Hopps frantically picks up her police radio.
Judy Hoops:「Officer Hopps to dispatch!」

narrator:INT. POLICE STATION - DISPATCH - SAME
 We find Clawhauser showing a handcuffed PERP a video on his phone of pop star Gazelle singing and dancing. A RED LIGHT blinks on the desk phone, but Clawhauser ignores it.
CLAWHAUSER:「Are you familiar with Gazelle? Greatest singer of our lifetime-- angel with horns-- okay, hold on, keep watching. Who's that beside her? Who is it?」
narrator:Reveal: Clawhauser is dancing on stage with Gazelle.
GAZELLE:「ON PHONE) Wow, you are one hot dancer... (digitized robo-voice) ...BENJAMIN CLAWHAUSER.」
CLAWHAUSER:「joyous laughter) It's me! Did you think it was real? It looks so real! It's not. It's just a new app. (finally notices ringing phone) Hold on a second--」
narrator:Clawhauser clicks the speaker button and--
Judy Hoops:「V.O.) CLAWHAUSER! Blue Rev. (mm/dd/yy)
 62.」

narrator:EXT. THE CANOPY - SAME
 RAAGH! Manchas takes a swipe at Nick.
Judy Hoops:「Clawhauser, listen to me! We have a 10-91! Jaguar gone savage! Vine and Tu-junja!」
NICK:「It's Tujunga!」
narrator:As they emerge from the log, Hopps slips, dropping her radio.
CLAWHAUSER:「ON RADIO) Okay, we're sending back up! Hopps? HOPPS?!」
narrator:Nick and Hopps run, sliding around a corner. Ahead is a gondola station.
Judy Hoops:「There! Head to the skytrams!」
narrator:They run to the gondolas. Hopps darts out of Manchas' way, but slips and is headed off the platform when she manages to grab on-- dangling from the edge. Nick searches for her...
NICK:「Get in! Carrots? Carrots!」
narrator:He tries to hold on to the gondola for Hopps, who is struggling to pull herself back onto the platform.
Judy Hoops:「Go!」

NICK:「Now, I can tell you're a little tense, so I'm just gonna give you a little personal space--」
narrator:The jaguar thrashes, knocking Nick and Hopps over the edge. Hopps barely grabs a vine, but struggles to hold Nick in the other hand. As Manchas growls at them from above, Nick looks at the abyss below. Hopps looks around, her mind racing.
NICK:「Rabbit, whatever you do, do not let go!」
Judy Hoops:「I'm gonna let go!」
NICK:「No, you what? No, I said-- listen-- noooo!」
Judy Hoops:「One, two--」
narrator:Hopps lets go, swinging them over to a netting of vines, kind of on top of each other. They can't believe they're alive. They look at each other, stunned, relieved...
NICK:「Carrots. You saved my life.」
Judy Hoops:「Well. That's what we do at the ZP... (the branch snaps) Deeeeeeeeeeeee.....」

narrator:MOMENTS LATER --
 Hopps leads the cops up to the canopy, full of confidence.
Judy Hoops:「I thought this was just a missing mammal case, but it's way bigger. (MORE) 64.
 Mr. Otterton did not just disappear. I believe he and this jaguar, they... went savage, Sir.」
BOGO:「scoffing) Savage? This isn't the Stone Age, Hopps. Animals don't go savage.」
Judy Hoops:「I thought so too, `til I saw this:」
narrator:Hopps pulls back some leaves to reveal: the jaguar is gone. There is no sign of him... or his handcuffs. It's like it never happened. Hopps' eyes go wide.
Judy Hoops:「What? He was right here...」
BOGO:「not buying it) The "savage" jaguar.」
Judy Hoops:「Sir, I know what I saw-- he almost killed us.」
BOGO:「Or maybe any aggressive predator looks savage to you rabbits. (calls out, to cops) Let's go.」
Judy Hoops:「Wait-- Sir, I'm not the only one who saw him! (to Nick) Nick!」
narrator:Hopps turns to Nick, but before he can explain:

BOGO:「incredulous) You think I'm going to believe a fox?」
Judy Hoops:「Well he was a key witness and I enlisted--」
BOGO:「the last straw) Two days to find the otter... (MORE) 65.
 or you quit... that was the deal. Badge.」
narrator:Bogo extends his arm, waiting for Hopps to hand it over.
Judy Hoops:「But, Sir, we...」

narrator:INT./EXT. GONDOLA - CONTINUOUS
 Hopps and Nick both stare straight ahead.
Judy Hoops:「Thank you.」
NICK:「Never let `em see that they get to you.」
narrator:Hopps looks at Nick, a little surprised. Nick looks out.
Judy Hoops:「So, things do get to you...」
NICK:「No... I mean, not anymore. But I was small and emotionally unbalanced like you once.」
Judy Hoops:「Har-har.」

narrator:THE GONDOLA --
NICK:「I learned two things that day. One, I was never gonna let anyone see that they got to me.」
narrator:Hopps looks at Nick, who avoids eye contact.
Judy Hoops:「And two?」
NICK:「If the world's only gonna see a fox as shifty and untrustworthy, there's no point in trying to be anything else.」
Judy Hoops:「Nick, you are so much more than that...」

Judy Hoops:「Nick, I'm glad you told me...」
NICK:「lightbulb moment!) The Jam Cams...!」
Judy Hoops:「Seriously, it's okay...」
NICK:「No-n-shh-shush! There are traffic cameras everywhere. All over the canopy. Whatever happened to that jaguar--」
Judy Hoops:「The traffic cams would have caught it!」
NICK:「Bingo!」
narrator:Hopps gives him a chuck on the arm, impressed.
Judy Hoops:「Pretty sneaky, Slick.」
NICK:「However. If you didn't have access to the system before, I doubt Chief Buffalo Butt is gonna let you into it now.」
Judy Hoops:「beat, then) No... But I have a friend at City Hall who might.」

BELLWETHER:「Ooo, I'm so sorry... sir?!」
LIONHEART:「Okay. I heard you, Bellwether. Just take care of it! (setting another binder atop her stack) Please. And clear my afternoon, I'm going out.」
BELLWETHER:「No, no! But, sir, you do have a meeting with Herds and Grazing... sir, if I could just--」
narrator:He continues through a door. Bellwether tries to follow, but the door shuts on her, spilling the binders to the floor.
BELLWETHER:「Oh, mutton chops.」
narrator:As Bellwether picks up her mess, Hopps and Nick appear.
Judy Hoops:「Assistant Mayor Bellwether? We need your help.」

narrator:INT. BELLWETHER'S OFFICE - LATER
 We're in Bellwether's cramped little office. Nick and Hopps hover over her while she sits at her computer.
Judy Hoops:「We just need to get into the traffic cam database.」
narrator:Nick subtly touches Bellwether's wool puff.
NICK:「mouths, to Hopps) So fluffy!」
Judy Hoops:「Hey!」
NICK:「Sheep never let me this close.」
Judy Hoops:「You can't just touch a sheep's wool... 71.」

narrator:NICK
 HOPPS It's like cotton candy.
 Stop it!
 Judy swats Nick, but accidentally hits Bellwether's puff.
BELLWETHER:「Where to?」
Judy Hoops:「Rainforest District, Vine and Tujunga.」
narrator:ANGLE ON the computer screen.
BELLWETHER:「There! Traffic cams for the whole city. This is so exciting, actually. Well, you know, I never get to do anything this important.」
Judy Hoops:「But you're the Assistant Mayor of Zootopia.」

BELLWETHER:「Oh, dear. I better go -- (to Hopps, while leaving) Let me know what you find. It was really nice for me to be--」
LIONHEART:「INTERCOM) While we're young, Smellwether!」
narrator:Bellwether finally opens her big heavy door and leaves.
NICK:「You think when she goes to sleep she counts herself?」
Judy Hoops:「Shush. Okay, traffic cams... (looking at computer) Tujunga, Tujunga... we're in.」
narrator:Nick and Hopps watch the footage from the night before. We can see the jaguar going nuts. Then a BLACK VAN skids up, and some WOLVES hop out.
Judy Hoops:「Who are these guys?」
NICK:「Timberwolves. Look at these dumdums.」
narrator:The Wolves suddenly capture the jaguar with a net. Judy GASPS, shocked. Nick is unfazed.
NICK:「Betcha a nickel one of em's gonna howl.」
narrator:The wolves howl...
NICK:「And there it is. What is it with wolves and the howling? It's like--」

Judy Hoops:「light-bulb moment) Howlers! Night howlers! That's what Manchas was afraid of... wolves! The wolves are the night howlers. If they took Manchas...」

Judy Hoops:「All we gotta do is find out where they went.」
narrator:She clicks the monitor... but as the wolves drive off, they disappear through a tunnel and don't come out the other side.
Judy Hoops:「Wait. Where'd they go?」
NICK:「You know, if I wanted to avoid surveillance because I was doing something illegal-- which I never have-- I would use the maintenance tunnel 6B... which would put them out...」
narrator:He clicks on another camera. Nothing... then... the wolves emerge in the van.
NICK:「...right there.」
narrator:Hopps looks at Nick, impressed.
Judy Hoops:「Well, look at you, Junior Detective. You know, I think you'd actually make a pretty good cop.」
NICK:「How dare you.」
narrator:Hopps goes back to clicking... we track the wolves through alleys and back roads.
NICK:「Acacia alley... Ficus underpass... South Canyon...」
Judy Hoops:「They're heading out of town... Where does that road go?」

narrator:Using elaborate hand signals, Nick motions he's going to sneak past first. He gets around the gate, but as he gets close... a wolf sniffs the air... he's onto him.
 Nick reaches around and grabs a piece of wood to use as a weapon. The wolf moves toward Nick... but before he reaches him... Ooooooooooo!
 A distant howl grabs his attention. It's Hopps, cupping her mouth to make the howl sound distant. The wolf hears it and can't help but howl as well. Another guard approaches.
 WOLF GUARD Gary, quit it, you're gonna start a howl.
 GARY THE WOLF GUARD I didn't start it. (more howling off-screen) Oooooooo!
 WOLF GUARD Oooooooooo!
 More wolves start to howl. Nick looks at Hopps, impressed.
Judy Hoops:「Come on!」

narrator:INT. CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM - LARGE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
 Nick and Hopps emerge from the drain pipe into the creepy asylum. They're in a large, cavernous room, full of old MEDICAL EQUIPMENT. It's like a combination of an old hospital and a turn-of-the-century zoo.
Judy Hoops:「It looks like this was a hospital.」

narrator:INT. CLIFFSIDE ASYLUM - MEDICAL WARD - MOMENTS LATER
 Hopps cautiously pushes the door open to reveal: a room with modern medical equipment. Nick pops up behind her.
NICK:「Okay. All clear.」
narrator:Hopps rolls her eyes and cautiously enters and looks around.
Judy Hoops:「All this equipment is brand new...」
NICK:「O.S.) Carrots...?」
narrator:Nick points to the ground, which is scuffed with CLAW MARKS.
Judy Hoops:「Claw marks...」
NICK:「Yeah. Huge, huge, claw marks. I mean, what kind of--」
narrator:RAAGH! A SAVAGE TIGER emerges behind the glass of a nearby cage, startling Nick and sending him running to Hopps.
 Hopps swivels her flashlight to reveal: dozens of reflective eyes. Nick and Hopps make their way down a long corridor of cages, looking for the jaguar.
Judy Hoops:「Mr. Manchas.」
narrator:He's still feral, on all fours and pacing in a cell. They continue on, passing three, four, five, cages until finally, in the last cage: a FERAL OTTER. It's EMMITT OTTERTON.

Judy Hoops:「It's him. We found our otter. (to the otter, gently) Mr. Otterton, my name is Officer Judy Hopps. Your wife sent me to find you. We're gonna get you out of here now.」

NICK:「Or not. Guess he's in no rush to get home to the Missus.」
narrator:Hopps looks back down the corridor of cells, counting.
Judy Hoops:「Not including Manchas it's 14... (lightbulb) Chief Bogo handed out 14 Missing Mammal files... They're all here. All the missing mammals are right here.」

LIONHEART:「Hmm... Great idea. Tell the public. And how do you think they're gonna feel about their mayor, who is a lion?! I'll be ruined!」
narrator:BADGER DOCTOR Well, what does Chief Bogo say?
LIONHEART:「Chief Bogo doesn't know. And we are going to keep it that way.」
narrator:Beep-beep-beep-- Hopps' parents call in. She frantically tries to silence her phone.
LIONHEART:「Someone's here!」
narrator:BADGER DOCTOR Sir, you need to go, now! (calls out) Security! Sweep the area!
 AN ALARM SOUNDS. The door to the cell Hopps and Nick are in triggers shut. They notice WOLVES approaching.
NICK:「Great! We're dead. We're dead. That's it. I'm dead. You're dead. Everybody's dead.」
narrator:This gives Hopps an idea. She looks at the HUGE TOILET.
Judy Hoops:「Can you swim?」

Judy Hoops:「We gotta tell Bogo!」

narrator:EXT. ASYLUM - DAY
 Cop cars and helicopters surround the asylum. Hopps, flanked by Bogo and other COPS, leads Lionheart out of the building.
Judy Hoops:「Mayor Lionheart, you have the right to remain silent. Anything--」
LIONHEART:「You don't understand. I was trying to protect the city.」
Judy Hoops:「You were just trying to protect your job.」
LIONHEART:「No. Listen, we still don't know why this is happening. It could destroy Zootopia.」
Judy Hoops:「You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law...」

narrator:INT. ZPD - LOBBY
 Bogo addresses the press. Behind him, POSTERS of the Savage Animals-- each one MUZZLED.
BOGO:「Ladies and Gentlemammals... 14 mammals went missing and all 14 have been found by our newest recruit, who will speak to you in a moment. But first, let me remind you--」
narrator:Bogo's voice trails off in the background as Nick and Hopps watch from the side. Hopps bites her nails, nervous.
Judy Hoops:「Rrrgh. I am so nervous...」
NICK:「Okay, press conference 101: You wanna look smart? (MORE) 80.
 Answer their question with your own question and then answer that question. Like this, "Excuse me. Officer Hopps, what can you tell us about the case?" (pretending to be Hopps) "Well, was this a tough case? Yes. Yes it was." You see?」
Judy Hoops:「You should be there with me. We did this together.」
NICK:「Well, am I a cop? No. No, I am not.」
Judy Hoops:「Funny you should say that, because I've been thinking... it would be nice to have a partner.」

narrator:She hands Nick an APPLICATION. Then-- click-- she holds out the carrot pen to him.
Judy Hoops:「Here. In case you need something to write with.」
BOGO:「O.S.) At twenty-two hundred hours, we found all these missing animals...」
narrator:Bellwether gestures to Judy to come up.
BELLWETHER:「Officer Hopps, it's time.」
narrator:As Hopps goes, Nick smiles. He's touched...
BOGO:「So now, I'll turn things over to the officer who cracked the case. Officer Judy Hopps.」
narrator:Hopps takes a deep breath and steps up to the dais.
 PRESS Officer Hopps! / Over here! / Here!
Judy Hoops:「pointing to a REPORTER) Yes? 81.」

narrator:REPORTER What can you tell us about the animals that went savage?
Judy Hoops:「Well, the animals in question... (glances at Nick) Are they all different species? Yes. Yes they are.」
narrator:Nick smiles, gives a thumbs up.
 REPORTER 2 Okay, so what is the connection?
Judy Hoops:「Well, all we know is that they are all members of the predator family.」
narrator:ANOTHER REPORTER So, predators are the only ones going savage?
Judy Hoops:「That is accu-- Yes, that is accurate. Yes...」
narrator:REPORTER 3 Wow. Why is that happening?
Judy Hoops:「We still don't know--」
narrator:More disappointed rumbling.
Judy Hoops:「(trying to appease) Ah, it may have something to do with biology.」
narrator:On Nick-- huh? The press reacts, too... big time.
 REPORTER (O.S.) What do you mean by that?
Judy Hoops:「A biological component. You know, something in their DNA...」

Judy Hoops:「Yes. What I mean is, thousands of years ago... um... predators survived through their aggressive hunting instincts. For whatever reason, they seem to be reverting back to their primitive, savage ways.」
narrator:Nick doesn't like what he's hearing.
 REPORTER (O.S.) Of course they did.
 Nick looks at the posters of the muzzled animals and shakes his head, disbelieving. FLASH BACK to his memory of being muzzled as a child.
MEAN KID ANIMAL:「V.O.) (during flashback) Aw, is he gonna cry.」
narrator:REPORTER (O.S.) (on Nick, as flashback ends) Officer Hopps, could it happen again?
Judy Hoops:「It is possible. So we must be vigilant. And we at the ZPD are prepared and are here to protect you...」
narrator:This sends the Press into an absolute frenzy.
 PRESS Will more mammals go savage? / What is being done to protect us? / Have you considered a mandatory quarantine on predators?
 Bellwether steps in, eager to put an end to the questions.
BELLWETHER:「Okay, thank you Officer Hopps, uh, that's all the time that we have. No more questions...」
narrator:Bellwether ushers Hopps off stage.

Judy Hoops:「Was I okay? 83.」

BELLWETHER:「Oh, you did fine.」
narrator:Hopps walks across the lobby to Nick, completely unaware that she just started a controversy.
Judy Hoops:「excited) That went so fast! I didn't get a chance to mention you or say anything about how we--」
NICK:「upset) Oh, I think you said plenty.」
Judy Hoops:「What do you mean?」
NICK:「sarcastic, hard) Clearly, there's a biological component? These predators may be reverting back to their primitive, savage ways. Are you serious?」
Judy Hoops:「I just stated the facts of the case. I mean, it's not like a bunny could go savage...」
NICK:「Right. But a fox could? Huh?」
Judy Hoops:「Nick, stop it. You're not like them.」
NICK:「Oh, there's a them now?」
Judy Hoops:「You know what I mean. You're not that kind of predator.」

NICK:「Yeah, don't think I didn't notice that little item the first time we met. (escalating anger) So let me ask you a question. Are you afraid of me? (Hopps looks heartbroken) Do you think I might go nuts? Do you think I might go savage? Do you think I might try to... EAT YOU?!」
narrator:He lunges, like he's going to bite her. She flinches and unthinkingly puts her hand on the repellent.
NICK:「(calm, hurt) ...I knew it. Just when I thought somebody actually believed in me...」
narrator:He shoves the application at her.
NICK:「Probably best if you don't have a predator as a partner.」
narrator:As he walks away, he takes off the sticker badge, crumples it and tosses it away.
Judy Hoops:「No. Nick. Nick!」
narrator:REPORTER 5 Officer Hopps! Were you just threatened by that predator?
Judy Hoops:「No. He's my friend.」
narrator:REPORTER 6 We can't even trust our own friends?
Judy Hoops:「That is not what I said! Please!」

narrator:INT. ZPD OFFICE - DAY
 The broadcast plays from Hopps' desk computer. As she watches, Bogo walks up behind her.
BOGO:「Come on Hopps. The new Mayor wants to see us.」
Judy Hoops:「The Mayor? Why?」

narrator:INT. ZPD LOBBY - DAY
 Clawhauser sighs and closes his laptop. He loads it into a box of his desk items. Hopps enters.
Judy Hoops:「Clawhauser? What're you doing?」

Judy Hoops:「What?」

narrator:INT. BELLWETHER'S OFFICE - DAY
 Hopps looks at the pamphlet. Bellwether sits across from her at her desk.
Judy Hoops:「Um... I don't understand.」
BELLWETHER:「Our city is 90% prey, Judy. And right now they're just really scared. You're a hero to them. They trust you. And so that's why Chief Bogo and I want you to be the public face of the ZPD.」
narrator:Bogo sits next to Hopps. She looks at the pamphlet again.
Judy Hoops:「struggling to find words) I'm not... I'm not a hero. I came here to make the world a better place, but I think I broke it.」

Judy Hoops:「With all due respect, sir, a good cop is supposed to serve and protect-- help the city. Not tear it apart. (deep sigh) I don't deserve this badge.」
narrator:She removes her badge...
BOGO:「Hopps.」
BELLWETHER:「Judy, you've worked so hard to get here. It's what you've wanted since you were a kid. You can't quit...」
Judy Hoops:「Thank you for the opportunity.」

narrator:EXT. HOPPS' FARMS VEGETABLE STAND - DAY
 Hopps, with a thousand yard stare, works the carrot stand. She wraps some carrots in a newspaper-- Headline: GROWING UNREST DIVIDES CITY-- and hands them to a RABBIT FAMILY.
Judy Hoops:「A dozen carrots.」
narrator:RABBIT MOM Thanks!
Judy Hoops:「Have a nice day.」

BONNIE HOPPS:「You are not fine. Your ears are droopy.」
narrator:Hopps remains fixed on the newspaper and lets out a sigh.
Judy Hoops:「Why did I think I could make a difference?」
STU HOPPS:「Because you're a trier, that's why.」
BONNIE HOPPS:「You've always been a trier.」
Judy Hoops:「Oh, I tried. And it made life so much worse for so many innocent predators.」
narrator:Off-screen, BEEP-BEEP.
STU HOPPS:「Oh, not all of them, though. Speak of the devil. Right on time.」
narrator:A truck pulls up. Its sign reads: GIDEON GREY'S GOOD BAKED STUFF... With Fresh Produce From Hopps Family Farms.
Judy Hoops:「Is that... Gideon Grey?」
STU HOPPS:「Yep. It sure is. We work with him now.」
BONNIE HOPPS:「He's our partner. And we never would have considered it had you not opened our minds.」
STU HOPPS:「That's right. I mean, Gid's turned into one of the top pastry chefs in the tri-burrows.」

Judy Hoops:「That's really cool, you guys.」
narrator:GIDEON GREY, now paunchy, climbs out his truck.
Judy Hoops:「Gideon Grey. I'll be darned. 90.」

narrator:ADULT GIDEON GREY Hey Judy-- I'd like to say I'm sorry for the way I behaved in my youth. I had a lotta self-doubt that manifested itself in the form of unchecked rage and aggression. I was a major jerk.
Judy Hoops:「Well, I know a thing or two about being a jerk...」
narrator:ADULT GIDEON GREY Anyhow-- I brought you all these pies.
 He holds out some pies. KID BUNNIES come tearing across the field, bee-lining for the pies. Stu shouts at the kids.
STU HOPPS:「Hey kids! Don't you run through that midnicampum holicithias!」
narrator:RABBIT KID (holding back the others) Whoa, whoa, whoa!
 ADULT GIDEON GREY Now there's a 4-dollar word, Mr. H. My family always just called them night howlers.
 Wait. What?
Judy Hoops:「I'm sorry, what did you say?」

Judy Hoops:「a dawning realization) A bunny can go savage...」
narrator:We stay on Hopps as she pieces it together.
BONNIE HOPPS:「Savage? Well, that's a strong word. But it did hurt like the devil.」
STU HOPPS:「Well sure it did. There's a sizable divot in your arm. I'd call that savage.」
Judy Hoops:「as if doing an equation) Night howlers aren't wolves. They're flowers. The flowers are making the predators go savage. That's it! That's what I've been missing!」
narrator:Hopps races away, then turns back.
Judy Hoops:「Oh, keys! Keys! Keys! Keys! Hurry! Come on! Thank you, I love you bye!」

narrator:EXT. ZOOTOPIA - SAHARA SQUARE - STREET
 Hopps drives the farm truck to Finnick's van. She knocks.
 FINNICK Who is it?
Judy Hoops:「I need to find Nick. Please. 92.」

narrator:EXT. BRIDGE - LATER
 Hopps arrives at an underpass. She looks around, it's a desolate, sad place.
Judy Hoops:「Nick? Nick!」
narrator:There's Nick, sitting on a lawn chair under the bridge.
Judy Hoops:「Oh, Nick! Night howlers aren't wolves. They're toxic flowers. I think someone is targeting predators on purpose and making them go savage.」
NICK:「Wow. Isn't that interesting.」
narrator:He gets up, walks under the bridge. She follows.
Judy Hoops:「Wait! Wait, please-- I know you'll never forgive me. And I don't blame you. I wouldn't forgive me either. I was ignorant and irresponsible and small-minded... But predators shouldn't suffer because of my mistakes. I have to fix this, but I can't do it without you.」
narrator:He sighs, but still won't look at her.
Judy Hoops:「(getting emotional) And after we're done, you can hate me, and that'll be fine, because I was a horrible friend and I hurt you... and you can walk away knowing you were right all along, I really am just a dumb bunny.」
narrator:It seems she lost him, then:

Judy Hoops:「ON RECORDER) I really am just a dumb bunny. I really am just a dumb bunny.」

NICK:「Don't worry, Carrots, I'll let you erase it... in 48 hours.」
narrator:Hopps sniffles and wipes a tear from her eye.
NICK:「Alright, get in here.」
narrator:Hopps leans her head on Nick's chest. He gives her a hug.
NICK:「Okay. Oh, you bunnies... You're so emotional. There we go. Deep breath. (then) Are you just trying to steal the pen. Is that what this is? (then) You are standing on my tail, though. Off, off, off.」
Judy Hoops:「I'm sorry.」

narrator:INT. HOPPS' FAMILY TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER
 Hopps drives as Nick sits shotgun-- eating blueberries.
NICK:「I thought you guys only grew carrots. (then, eats) What's the plan?」
Judy Hoops:「We are gonna follow the night howlers.」
NICK:「Okay. How?」
Judy Hoops:「shows picture of weasel) Know this guy?」

narrator:EXT. ZOOTOPIA STREET - LATER
 We find the weasel selling crappy knock-off merchandise on a street corner.
DUKE WEASELTON:「Well, hello, step right up! Anything you need... I got it. All your favorite movies! I got movies that haven't even been released yet!」
narrator:An ARMADILLO CUSTOMER scans an array of blatant knock-off movies like "Wreck-it Rhino," "Wrangled," and "Pig Hero 6."
DUKE WEASELTON:「Hey, 15% off! 20! Make me an offer! Come on!」
NICK:「suddenly appearing) Well, well, look who it is. The duke of bootleg.」
DUKE WEASELTON:「What's it to you, Wilde? Shouldn't you be melting down a popsicle or something? (sees Hopps) Hey, if it isn't Flopsy the Copsy.」
Judy Hoops:「We both know those weren't moldy onions I caught you stealing. What were you gonna do with those night howlers, Wessleton?」

DUKE WEASELTON:「Aaagh! Agh! (to Nick) Ya dirty rat! Why ya helping her?! She's a cop!」
narrator:MR. BIG And the godmother to my future granddaughter.
 Reveal: FRU FRU is pregnant.
FRU FRU SHREW:「I'm gonna name her Judy.」
Judy Hoops:「Aw.」
narrator:MR. BIG (to polar bears) Ice this weasel.
DUKE WEASELTON:「All right, all right, please! I'll talk! I'll talk. I stole them night howlers so I could sell `em. They offered me what I couldn't refuse... Money.」
Judy Hoops:「And to whom did you sell them?」

Judy Hoops:「Come on!」

narrator:INT. THE GREENHOUSE CAR - CONTINUOUS
 They both see the rows of night howlers.
Judy Hoops:「The weasel wasn't lying.」

narrator:BAM, BAM, BAM! The goons have returned.
 WOOLTER (O.S.) Hey Doug, open up! We've got your latte.
DOUG:「into phone) Alright, Woolter and Jesse are back, so I'm leaving now. (then) Out.」
narrator:Hopps looks around, what is she going to do. As Doug goes to the door to unlock it, Hopps creeps out of their hiding spot.
NICK:「Hey. Hey! Where are you going? Get back here! What are you doing?! He's gonna see you! What are you looking at? Hey! Whatever you're thinking, stop thinking it. Carrots! Carrots!」
DOUG:「It better have the extra foam this time--」
narrator:BAM! Hopps kicks Woolter in the back, knocking him into the other two Thugs. Hopps locks the door.
 WOOLTER (O.S.) Hey, open up!
 The Thugs start banging on the doors.
NICK:「What are you doing?! You just trapped us in here!」
Judy Hoops:「We need to get this evidence to the ZPD.」
narrator:Nick picks up the case.
NICK:「Okay. Great. Here it is. Got it.」
Judy Hoops:「No. All of it!」

narrator:INT. SUBWAY CAR - SAME
 Nick and Hopps race away, feeling fairly confident.
NICK:「Mission accomplished. Would it be premature for me to do a little victory toot-toot?」
Judy Hoops:「All right. One toot-toot.」

narrator:Noise from the roof above them... BAM! BAM! BAM!
NICK:「Maybe that's just hail?」
narrator:Uh-oh. Jesse busts through the window. He's stuck, but flailing at Hopps. Nick tries to pull him away.
NICK:「Back off!」
narrator:Nick gets punched backward and notices Woolter charging toward the door at full speed. Right before Woolter arrives, Nick pulls the door open.
NICK:「Incoming!」
narrator:Woolter's momentum carries him into Jesse-- dislodging him onto the tracks. Hopps is knocked out the window, but grabs onto Woolter's horn. Hopps tries to hang on as the subway car hurtles down the tunnel.
NICK:「Carrots?!」
Judy Hoops:「to Nick) Don't stop! Keep going!」
narrator:JESSE (about to get run over) No! No! Please stop!
Judy Hoops:「Do not stop this car!」
narrator:Jesse dives to safety and Hopps gets bucked up onto the top of the train. Nick takes the wheel as the train emerges above ground. Hopps looks up to see... Another train coming toward them... on the same track! She sees a turn-off switch ahead.

Judy Hoops:「Speed up, Nick! Speed up!」
NICK:「staving off Woolter) There's another train coming!」
Judy Hoops:「Trust me! SPEED! UP!」

narrator:WOOLTER Stop the train! Hey!
 Then, at the last second, Hopps appears next to him:
Judy Hoops:「Hey. Need some help?」
narrator:Hopps kicks Woolter off the train and he lands perfectly on the turn-off switch on the tracks below. At the last possible second, their train switches tracks-- just avoiding the oncoming car.
 Except...
NICK:「Oh no! Oh no, no, no! Too fast! Hold on!」
narrator:The train derails as it takes the curve. The night howlers catch fire.
NICK:「I think this is our stop!」
narrator:Hopps and Nick dive out of the car and onto a subway platform... Just as the lab car EXPLODES.
Judy Hoops:「Okay... Maybe some of the evidence survived.」
narrator:A second loud EXPLOSION. The train is destroyed.
Judy Hoops:「Everything is gone. We've lost it all.」
NICK:「shaking head) Yeah. Oh, except for this.」
narrator:Nick holds up a case-- containing a gun and a pellet.
Judy Hoops:「Oh, Nick! Yes!」

Judy Hoops:「Come on! We gotta get to the ZPD. Cut through the Natural History Museum!」

narrator:INT. NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM - NIGHT
 Nick and Hopps race through the empty museum. The ZPD entrance is just ahead.
Judy Hoops:「Oh! There it is!」
narrator:They're going to make it.
BELLWETHER:「O.S.) Judy! Judy!」
narrator:Judy and Nick stop and turn. There's Bellwether, standing behind them with TWO RAM COPS.
Judy Hoops:「Mayor Bellwether! (out of breath, rapidly) We found out what's happening. Someone's darting predators with a serum-- that's what's making them go savage.」
BELLWETHER:「applauding) I am so proud of you, Judy. You did just a super job.」
Judy Hoops:「Thank you, ma'am. (troubling realization) How did you know where to find us?」
BELLWETHER:「I'll go ahead and I'll take that case now.」
Judy Hoops:「You know what... I think Nick and I will just take this to the ZPD...」
narrator:Hopps turns toward the ZPD. Uh oh. One of Bellwether's RAMS is blocking the way. Nick just now gets what's going on.

Judy Hoops:「NICK Run!
 Run! 102.」

narrator:They take off-- away from the ZPD-- down a dark corridor.
BELLWETHER:「Get them!」
narrator:Hopps looks over her shoulder as she runs-- not seeing a sharp WOOLY MAMMOTH TUSK sticking out. It slashes her leg, knocking her off her feet.
Judy Hoops:「Ach!」
NICK:「Ah Carrots!」
narrator:Nick goes to her. Her leg is bleeding badly.
NICK:「I got ya, come here, come here.」
narrator:He carries her behind a pillar.
NICK:「Okay, now just relax.」
narrator:Nick digs a handkerchief from his pocket. A few BLUEBERRIES fall out with it.
NICK:「Whoops... Blueberry?」
Judy Hoops:「Pass.」
BELLWETHER:「O.S.) Come on out, Judy!」
Judy Hoops:「Take the case. Get it to Bogo.」
NICK:「I'm not gonna leave you behind. That's not happening.」
Judy Hoops:「I can't walk.」

narrator:WITH BELLWETHER &amp; THUGS --
 Bellwether talks as they look for Hopps and Nick...
BELLWETHER:「Underestimated. Under-appreciated. Aren't you sick of it? Predators. They may be strong and loud, but prey out-number predators 10 to one.」
narrator:Bellwether sees a SHADOW-- RABBIT EARS. She gestures to the RAMS-- there they are.
BELLWETHER:「Think of it-- 90 percent of the population, united against a common enemy. We'll be unstoppable.」
narrator:The Rams are about to pounce on Hopps and Nick... only to find the shadow is coming from a MUMMIFIED JACKALOPE being illuminated by a shop light.
BELLWETHER:「(to Goons) Over there!」
narrator:Hopps and Nick are making a run for it. They're going to make it to the ZPD! When suddenly...
 BAM! A RAM tackles them both, knocking the case out of Nick's paws. Both of them fall into a sunken diorama. Bellwether, with case in hand, looks over the edge.
BELLWETHER:「Well, you should have stayed on the carrot farm, huh? It really is too bad; I really did like you.」
Judy Hoops:「What are you going to do? Kill me?」

BELLWETHER:「No! Of course not... he is.」
narrator:Bellwether takes the dart gun out of the case, aims at Nick and... THWICK! She darts him.
Judy Hoops:「No! Nick?!」

BELLWETHER:「Yes, police! There's a savage fox in the natural history museum. Officer Hopps is down! Please hurry!」
narrator:Nick is starting to turn.
Judy Hoops:「No. Nick, don't do this. Fight it.」
BELLWETHER:「Oh, but he can't help it, can he? Since preds are just biologically predisposed to be savages.」
narrator:Nick stalks Hopps, who tries to limp away.
BELLWETHER:「Gosh, think of the headline: "Hero Cop Killed By Savage Fox..."」
Judy Hoops:「So that's it, prey fears predator, and you stay in power?」
BELLWETHER:「Yeah, pretty much.」
Judy Hoops:「It won't work.」
BELLWETHER:「Fear always works. And I'll dart every predator in Zootopia to keep it that way.」
Judy Hoops:「as Nick stalks her) Oh, Nick! No!」
BELLWETHER:「Bye-Bye, Bunny.」
narrator:Nick lunges. He attacks. Hopps screams. Bellwether smiles.
Judy Hoops:「Blood, blood, blood! And death.」

NICK:「All right, you're milking it. Besides, I think we got it, I think we got it. We got it up there, thank you yakkety-yak-- you laid it all out beautifully.」
BELLWETHER:「What?」
narrator:Bellwether looks at her gun, in disbelief.
NICK:「Yea, oh, are you looking for the serum? (holds it up) Well, it's right here.」
Judy Hoops:「What you've got in the weapon there- - those are blueberries. From my family's farm.」
narrator:Livid, Bellwether sees a blueberry in the gun's chamber.
NICK:「They are delicious. (licking fingers) You should try some.」
BELLWETHER:「I framed Lionheart, I can frame you too! It's my word against yours!」
Judy Hoops:「Oooo, actually--」
narrator:Hopps holds up the carrot pen.
BELLWETHER:「ON CARROT PEN RECORDER) And I'll dart every predator in Zootopia to keep it that way...」
Judy Hoops:「It's your word against yours. It's called a hustle, sweetheart. Boom.」

narrator:EXT. ZOOTOPIA CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY
 Hopps walks through the CENTRAL PLAZA of ZOOTOPIA. She looks around to see animals coming back together. She focuses on two KIDS: one pred, one prey playing soccer.
Judy Hoops:「V.O.) When I was a kid, I thought Zootopia was this perfect place where everyone got along and anyone could be anything...」
narrator:Hopps kicks the soccer ball with the kids.
Judy Hoops:「V.O.) Turns out, real life's a little bit more complicated than a slogan on a bumper sticker. Real life is messy.」
narrator:AT THE ZPD: Hopps enters to find Clawhauser back at his desk, unpacking. What's more-- TWO COPS approach him with donuts.
Judy Hoops:「V.O.) We all have limitations. We all make mistakes. Which means-- hey, glass half full!-- we all have a lot in common. And the more we try to understand one another, the more exceptional each of us will be. But we have to try.」

narrator:EXT. CADET TRAINING GROUNDS - DAY
 Reveal: Hopps is giving a commencement address to the GRADUATES of the Police Academy.
Judy Hoops:「So, no matter what type of animal you are, from the biggest elephant to our first fox...」
narrator:Reveal: Nick is a cadet. He removes his shades, winks at Hopps.
Judy Hoops:「I implore you... try. Try to make the world a better place.」

Judy Hoops:「Look inside yourself, and recognize that change starts with you. It starts with me. It starts with all of us.」

Judy Hoops:「Oops. Sorry.」
NICK:「as he wipes off his face) Sly bunny.」
Judy Hoops:「Dumb fox.」
NICK:「You know you love me.」
Judy Hoops:「Do I know that? Yes. Yes, I do.」

narrator:EXT. STREETS OF ZOOTOPIA - MOMENTS LATER
 The fleeing sports car comes to a screeching halt. ANGLE ON the license plate: FST NML. Hopps and Nick exit their car and approach the driver.
Judy Hoops:「Sir, you were going 115 miles per hour. I hope you have a good explanation.」
