narration:[ Directors Cut of the Pilot ]
 [ Salvatore 's House ]
 Elena is lying in the cell and starting to desiccate . Damon and Stefan are upstairs
Damon:「That 's the calmest desiccating vampire I 've ever seen . I remember when you starved me down there for 3 days . I would 've wept at your feet for an orange peel」
Stefan:「Look , she 's not gon na beg for blood . Begging means desperation . Emotion . She 's still in no - humanity zone」
Damon:「How hungry does she have to be before we can torture some feelings back into her ?」
Stefan:「A lot hungrier than she is now , apparently」
Damon:「So , what are we supposed to do in the meantime ?」
narration:Katherine enters
Katherine:「Maybe I can provide a little excitement」
Stefan:「Katherine」
Katherine:「The one and only . Sort of . So , when 's the welcome home party ?」
Damon:「Wow . Look who went and got bold . Last time I checked , Klaus was plotting your eternal demise」
Katherine:「Well , it does n't matter anymore , because Klaus is gone」
Stefan:「Wait . What do you mean he 's gone ?」
Katherine:「Let 's just say that werewolf girl Hayley turned out to be just the thing we needed to get Klaus out of our lives for good」
narration:[ New Orleans ]
 Haley is at a bar . She looks at the bartender
Bartender:「Third time in here this week」
Haley:「I 'm obsessed with The Gumbo , Jane - Anne」
Jane - Anne:「The old ladies in the ninth ward say my sister Sophie bleeds a piece of her soul into every dish」
Haley:「I asked around the quarter about my family」
Jane - Anne:「And ?」
Haley:「Nothing . Zero . Ca n't find a single person who remembers them」
Jane - Anne:「Because , Hayley , people like you were run out of here years ago」
Haley:「What do you mean , people like me ?」
Jane - Anne:「In the Bayou , they call the werewolves Roux - Ga - Roux . You head out there ; you 'll find what you 're looking for . Be careful . It 's the last place you 'd ever want to go」
narration:Jane - Anne and Sophie are in a cemetery
Sophie:「Do n't do it . Please . What if I 'm wrong about her ?」
Jane - Anne:「That 's the beauty of you . You 're never wrong . She 's the only way we 're gon na get to Klaus」
Sophie:「Can we get someone else to do the spell ?」
Jane - Anne:「Who ? Half the witches do n't believe you . The other half are too scared」
Sophie:「Because they know we 're gon na get caught , Jane - Anne」

Jane - Anne:「We do n't have any other option . Now go . You know what you need to do」
narration:Haley arrives at the bayou and has a problem with her car
Haley:「What the ... uhh ! Are you kidding me ?」
narration:She gets out of the car and takes her phone
Haley:「Hey , I 'm looking for a tow service」
narration:A tour guide is leading a bunch of tourists
Tour Guide:「Welcome to the dark side of New Orleans , a supernatural playground where the living are easily lost and the dead stick around and play」
narration:Klaus smiles
 Mystic Falls
 [ Rebekah 's House ]
Rebekah:「New Orleans ? What the hell is Klaus doing there ?」
Elijah:「Evidently , there are witches conspiring against him . So , knowing our brother , this was a mission to silence and slaughter」
Rebekah:「Well , the French quarter witches are not a lot to be trifled with . You do n't suppose they 've found a way to kill him once and for all , do you ?」
Elijah:「Rebekah , in the name of our family , you might try to dial down your glee」
Rebekah:「What family ? We are 3 distrustful acquaintances who happen to share a bloodline . I for one hope they 've found a way to make that traitorous b*st*rd rot」
narration:[ New Orleans ]
 Klaus sees a woman and goes to her
Klaus Mikaelson:「Good afternoon . Time for one more ?」

Woman:「I have nothing to say to you」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , now , that 's not very amiable , is it ? You do n't even know me」
Woman:「I know what you are . Half - vampire , half - beast . You 're the hybrid」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm the original hybrid , actually , but that 's a long story for another time」
narration:Mystic Falls
 [ Rebekah 's House ]
Rebekah:「Where are you going ?」
Elijah:「To find out who 's making a move against our brother , and then ... I 'll either stop them , or I 'll help them . Depending on my mood」
narration:He leaves
 [ New Orleans ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm looking for someone . A witch . Perhaps you might be able to help me find her . Jane - Anne Deveraux」
Woman:「Sorry . I do n't know」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , now , that 's a fib , is n't it ? Now , you see ... I know that you 're a true witch amongst this sea of poseurs . So , enough with the fabrications . I 've quite a temper」

Woman:「Witches do n't talk Outta School in the quarter . The vampire wo n't allow it . Those are the rules . I do n't break Marcel 's rules」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Marcel 's rules ? Where do you suppose I might find Marcel ?」
narration:Marcel is singing in a bar . When he stops , he goes to the bar and sees Klaus
Marcel:「Klaus」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Marcel」
Marcel:「Must be 100 years since that nasty business with your papa」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Has it been that long ?」
Marcel:「Way I recall it , he ran you out of town . Left a trail of dead vampires in his wake」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And yet how fortunate you managed to survive . My father , I 'm afraid , I recently incinerated to dust」
Marcel:「Well , if I 'd known you were coming back in town , if I had a heads - up ...」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What , Marcel ? What would you have done ?」
Marcel:「I 'd have thrown you a damn parade . Niklaus Mikaelson . My mentor , my savior , my sire . Let 's get you a drink . It is good to see you」

Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's good to be home . Although please tell me the current state of bourbon street is not your doing」
Marcel:「Ha ha ha ha ! Something 's got ta draw in the out - of - towners ; otherwise , we 'd all go hungry」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I see your friends are daywalkers」
Marcel:「Yeah , yeah , I shared the secret of your daylight ring with a few buddies . Just the inner circle , though . The family」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Tell me . How did you find a witch willing to make daylight rings ?」
Marcel:「I got the witches here wrapped around my finger」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Is that so ? I 'm looking for a witch by the name of Jane - Anne Deveraux . Has some business with me」
Marcel:「Looking for Jane - Anne ? Then you probably ought to come with me . Ha ha ! Showtime !」
narration:Marcel and Klaus are outside . A crowd gathers
Marcel:「How 's the family ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Those who live hate me more than ever」

Marcel:「Forget them . If your blood relations let you down , you make your own , huh ? You taught me that . And what 's mine is yours , as always . Even my nightwalkers , the riff - raff」
Klaus Mikaelson:「They 're hardly subtle , are they ?」
Marcel:「It 's the quarter . Ai n't no such thing as subtle , baby」
narration:Marcel 's mignons bring Jane - Anne
Marcel:「Jane - Anne Deveraux . Give it up for Jane - Anne . Come on . Jane - Anne Deveraux , you have been accused of the practice of witchcraft beyond the bounds of the rules set forth and enforced by me . How do you plead ? Oh . Was that convincing ? I studied law back in the fifties . It 's all I know . Seriously , J , tick tock . You know the drill . How do you plead ?」
Jane - Anne:「I did n't do anything」

Marcel:「That 's a lie . You know it , I know it , and you hate that I know it . It drives you witches crazy that I 'm aware of your every move . That you ca n't do magic in this town without getting caught . So , why do n't we just cut to the chase , huh ? You tell me what magic you 're brewing . Tell me . I 'll grant you leniency . Hey , I am , after all , a merciful man」
Jane - Anne:「Rot in hell , monster」
Marcel:「I 'll tell you what . I 'll give you one more chance . Or not」
narration:He kills her . Klaus rejoins him
Klaus Mikaelson:「What was that ?」
Marcel:「Hey . Come walk with me . Witches are n't allowed to do magic here . She broke the rules」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I told you I wanted to talk to her」

Marcel:「Hey , I 'm sorry . I got caught up in the show . Those witches , they think that they still have power in this town . I have to show them that they do n't . I never waste an opportunity for a show of force . Another lesson that I learned from you . And besides , anything that you could 've gotten out of her , I can find out for you , and I will . I promise」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , whatever it was , does n't matter anymore , does it ?」
Marcel:「Good . Then let 's eat , because all that spilled blood makes me hungry」
narration:He leaves . Klaus talks to one of Marcel 's minions
Klaus Mikaelson:「Hey . Thierry , is n't it ? Any more Deveraux witches where she came from ?」
narration:Sophie is cooking . She turns herself . Klaus is here
Sophie:「You 're Klaus」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I am . And you 're upset . Sophie , is n't it ? I assume this is because of what I just witnessed with your sister on the corner of Royal and St. Ann」
Sophie:「Did you enjoy the show ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「It was a little melodramatic for my tastes . What did your sister want with me ? Why did Marcel kill her ?」
Sophie:「I see you brought friends」
Klaus Mikaelson:「They 're not with me」
Sophie:「They 're with Marcel . That 's all that matters . I know you built this town , but this is his town now . He killed my sister because she broke the rules . So , I talk to you in front of them , I 'm next」
narration:He rejoins the 2 men at the bar
Klaus Mikaelson:「Are you two gentlemen following me ?」
Man:「Marcel said we 're your guides」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , he did , did he ? Well , then , let me be exceedingly clear about something . If either of you following me again , you 'll do so without the benefit of a spine」
narration:The waitress rejoins them
Camille:「Sorry for the wait . If you 're here for the gumbo , I 'm about to break your heart . We just ran out」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Your oldest scotch for my two friends here , love . Marcel wants to know what I 'm up to , he can ask me himself」

narration:Sophie is outside , alone . She hears a door close and the men who were inside are here
Sophie:「The doors work , you know」
Man:「You doing magic ?」
Sophie:「I 'm praying to my dead sister . Go ahead . Pay your respects」
Man:「. Do n't make this a thing , Sophie . The hybrid was looking for Jane - Anne . Marcel wants to know why」
Sophie:「Oh , that sounds like witch business . I 'd say ask her yourself , but I guess you ca n't seeing as how Marcel killed her」
narration:They 're about to kill her but Elijah intervenes and kills them
Elijah:「I 'm Elijah . You 've heard of me ?」
Sophie:「Yes」
Elijah:「So , why do n't you tell me what business your family has with my brother ?」
narration:Klaus arrives at a party , looking for Marcel . He catches one of his men
Klaus Mikaelson:「Where 's Marcel ?」
Man:「Who the hell 's asking ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I assume you 're joking」
Man:「I only answer to Marcel」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , then , in that case , perhaps you 'll answer to this . You 're aware the bite of a werewolf can kill a vampire ? Well , as you can see , I 'm half - werewolf , so I 'm gon na ask you one more time ! Where is Marcel ?」
narration:Marcel arrives
Marcel:「H - hey . I 'm right here . I 'm right here . Easy , now . Diego 's just looking out for me . Nobody harms my」
narration:guys . Those are the rules
Klaus Mikaelson:「I do n't care about your rules , Marcel . I do n't need chaperones . Why are you having me followed ?」
Marcel:「Come here . I get it , huh ? Show of force . You made your point . Let it go , friend . For me」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Fine . Why do n't you show me what you 've done with the place while you explain exactly what it is you 've been up to in my town ?」
Marcel:「Follow me」
narration:Marcel and Klaus are on a balcony

Marcel:「Look at that skyline . That there , that 's progress . More hotels , more tourists , more fresh blood . And the humans ? I taught them to look the other way」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And what of the witches ? In my time , they were a force to be reckoned with , and now they live in fear . How do you know when they 're using magic ?」
Marcel:「Maybe I got a secret weapon , an ace up my sleeve , something that gives me complete control over all the magic in this town」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Hmm . Is that a fact ?」
Marcel:「Might be . Or maybe I 'm just bluffing」
narration:He eats something
Klaus Mikaelson:「You take vervain ?」
Marcel:「' Burns like a bitch . But I figure I should limit the number of things I 'm vulnerable to . Do n't be mad about that chaperone thing . I told my guys to look out for you , that 's all . That 's what we do here ... Look out for each other」
narration:They see Camille walking alone
Marcel:「Mmmmm . New blood」
Klaus Mikaelson:「The bartender , walking alone at night . She 's either brave or dumb」

Marcel:「Let 's see . Brave , I let her live , Let 's see . Brave , I let her live , dumb , she 's dessert」
narration:He jumps above the balcony and lands behind Camille
Marcel:「You know , it 's not safe here alone」
Camille:「You know , I have a black belt in karate」
narration:Klaus looks at them . Elijah 's here
Klaus Mikaelson:「Evening , Elijah」
Elijah:「Niklaus」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What an entirely unwelcome surprise」
Elijah:「And what an entirely unsurprising welcome . Come with me」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm not going anywhere . Not until I find out who 's conspiring against me」
Elijah:「I believe I just found that out for you」
narration:Klaus and Elijah are in a cemetery
Klaus Mikaelson:「What are we doing here ?」
Elijah:「Want to know what the witches have in store for you ? Follow me」
narration:They enter a crypt . Sophie is waiting for them
Klaus Mikaelson:「Sophie Deveraux . What is this ?」
Elijah:「He 's all yours . Proceed」

Sophie:「You know you 're famous in this town ? Witches tell bedtime stories about the powerful vampire Klaus . We know Marcel was nothing but an orphaned street rat until you made him what he is . And now he 's out of control . He does what he wants . He kills who he wants . I 'm gon na stop him ... And you 're gon na help me」
narration:Klaus looks at Elijah
Klaus Mikaelson:「This is why you brought me here」
Elijah:「Hear her out」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I do n't need to hear her out . I assure you , love , there is not a thing on this earth that will matter enough for me to waste even 30 more seconds of my timeElijah , what madness is this ?」
narration:Haley enters
Haley:「Klaus ... You need to listen to them」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're all out of your minds if you think some liquor - fueled one - night stand ... No offense , sweetheart ... Means a thing to me」
Sophie:「Marcel may be able to keep us from practicing real magic in this town , but as keepers of the balance , we still know when nature has cooked up something new . For example , I have a special gift , of sensing when a girl is pregnant」

Klaus Mikaelson:「What ?」
Haley:「I know . It 's impossible」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What are you saying ?」
Elijah:「Niklaus ... The girl is carrying your child」
Klaus Mikaelson:「No . It 's impossible . Vampires can not procreate」
Sophie:「But werewolves can . Magic made you a vampire , but you were born a werewolf . You 're the original hybrid , the first of your kind , and this pregnancy is one of nature 's loopholes」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 've been with someone else . Admit it !」
Haley:「Hey . I spent days held captive in a freakin ' alligator bayou because they think that I 'm carrying some magical miracle baby . Do n't you think I would 've fessed up if it was n't yours ?」
Sophie:「My sister gave her life to perform the spell she needed to confirm this pregnancy . Because of Jane - Anne 's sacrifice , the lives of this girl and her baby are now controlled by us . If you do n't help us take down Marcel , so help me , Hayley wo n't live long enough to see her first maternity dress」
Haley:「Wait , what ?」

Elijah:「Enough of this , if you want Marcel dead , he 's dead . I 'll do it myself」
Sophie:「No . We ca n't . Not yet . We have a clear plan that we need to follow and there are rules」
Klaus Mikaelson:「How dare you command me ? Threaten me with what you wrongfully perceive to be my weaknesses ? I wo n't hear any more lies」
Elijah:「Niklaus . Listen」
narration:They hear the baby 's heartbeat
Klaus Mikaelson:「Kill her and the baby . What do I care ?」
narration:He leaves
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 Elijah rejoins Klaus
Elijah:「Niklaus」
Klaus Mikaelson:「it 's a trick , Elijah」
Elijah:「No , brother . It 's a gift . It 's your chance . It 's our chance」
Klaus Mikaelson:「To what ?」
Elijah:「To start over . Take back everything we lost . Everything that was taken from us . Niklaus , our own parents came to despise us . Our family was ruined , we were ruined , and since then , all that you have ever wanted , all that we have ever wanted , was a family」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I will not be manipulated」

Elijah:「So , they 're manipulating you . So what ? With them , this girl and her child , your child ... live」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm gon na kill every last one of them」
Elijah:「And then what ? Then you return to Mystic Fall to resume your life as the hated one , as the evil hybrid ? Is it so important to you that people quake with fear at the sound of your name ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「People quake with fear because I have the power to make them afraid . What will this child offer me ? Will it guarantee me power ?」
Elijah:「Family is power , Niklaus . Love , loyalty . It 's power . This is what we swore to one another a thousand years ago , before life tore away what little humanity you had left , before ego , before anger , before paranoia created this person before me ... Someone I can barely even recognize as my own brother . This is us . The Original family . We remain together , always and forever . I am asking you to stay here . I will help you and I will stand by you . I will be your brother . We will build a home here together . So , save this girl Save your child」
Klaus Mikaelson:「No」
narration:Mystic Falls
 [ Rebekah 's House ]
 Rebekah is on the phone with Elijah

Elijah:「He 's doing what he does . Given a chance at happiness , Klaus runs in the opposite direction」
Rebekah:「Then let him run . That child , if it 's even his , is better off without him」
Elijah:「He 's not better off without that child , Rebekah , and neither are we」
Rebekah:「Darling , kind Elijah . Our brother rarely brings us anything but pain . At what point in your immortal life will you stop searching for his redemption ?」
Elijah:「I 'll stop searching for his redemption when I believe there is none left to be found」
narration:She hangs up . Katherine is here
Rebekah:「I 'd give you a play - by - play , but you have the air of someone who 's been lurking and listening」
Katherine:「He 'll come around . You know Elijah . He wo n't stop until he 's convinced Klaus to do the right thing」
Rebekah:「I know you consider yourself an expert in brotherly dynamics , but you do n't know my brothers half as well as you think you do」
Katherine:「You 're wrong . Klaus wo n't be able to walk away from this . He and I are the same . We manipulate , we thirst for power , we control , we punish , but our actions are driven by one singular place deep inside」
Rebekah:「And what 's that ?」
Katherine:「We 're alone . And we hate it . Tell Elijah to call me when he comes home . I 'll be waiting for him」
narration:She leaves
 [ New Orleans ]
 Klaus goes back to the party and rejoins Marcel
Marcel:「Hey , man . Where 'd you run off to ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You mean your minions are n't still documenting my every move ?」

Marcel:「Someone put you in a mood . What can I do ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What you can do is you can tell me what this thing is you have with the witches」
Marcel:「We 're back to that ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Yeah , we 're back to that」
Marcel:「You know I owe you everything I got , but I 'm afraid I have to draw the line on this one . This is my business . I control the witches in my town . Let 's just leave it at that」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Your town ?」
Marcel:「Damn straight」
Klaus Mikaelson:「That 's funny . Because when I left 100 years ago , you were just a pathetic little scrapper still trembling from the lashes of the whips of those who would keep you down , and now look at you . Master of your domain . Prince of the city . I 'd like to know how」

Marcel:「Why ? Jealous ? Hey man , I get it . 300 years ago , you helped build a backwater penal colony into something . You started it , but then you left . Actually , you ran from it . I saw it through . Look around . Vampires rule this city now . We do n't have to live in the shadows like rats . The locals know their place . They look the other way . I got rid of the werewolves . I even found a way to shut down the witches . The blood never stops flowing and the party never ends . You want to pass on through ? You want to stay a while ? Great . What 's mine is yours , but it is mine . My home , my family , my rules」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And if someone breaks those rules ?」
Marcel:「They die . Mercy is for the weak . You taught me that , too . And I 'm not the Prince of the quarter , friend . I 'm the King ! Show me some respect」
narration:Klaus loses his temper and bites one of his minions
Klaus Mikaelson:「Your friend will be dead by the weekend . Which means I 've broken one of your rules . And yet I can not be killed . I am immortal . Who has the power now , friend ?」

narration:He leaves
 Camille looks at a painting . Klaus rejoins her
Camille:「The hundred dollar guy」
Klaus Mikaelson:「The brave bartender . Camille . That 's a French name」
Camille:「It 's a grandma 's name . Call me Cami . Amazing , is n't he ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Do you paint ?」
Camille:「No , but I admire . Every artist has a story , you know」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And what do you suppose his story is ?」
Camille:「He 's ... angry . Dark . Does n't feel safe and does n't know what to do about it . He wishes he could control his demons instead of having his demons control him . He 's lost , alone . Or ... maybe he just drank too much tonight . Sorry . Overzealous psych major」
Klaus Mikaelson:「No . I think you were probably right the first time」
Camille:「So ...」
narration:Klaus has disappeared
 Klaus is sitting alone on a bench . Elijah rejoins him and sits down next to him
Klaus Mikaelson:「Are you here to give me another pep talk on the joys of fatherhood ?」
Elijah:「I 've said all I needed to say」

Klaus Mikaelson:「I forgot how much I liked this town」
Elijah:「I did n't forget . All the centuries we 've spent together and yet I can count on one hand the number of times that our family has been truly happy . I hated leaving here」
Klaus Mikaelson:「As did I」
Elijah:「What is on your mind , brother ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「For a thousand years , I lived in fear . Any time I settled anywhere , our father would hunt me down and ... chase me off . He made me feel powerless , and I hated it . This town was my home once , and in my absence , Marcel has gotten everything that I ever wanted . Power , loyalty , family . I made him in my image and he has bettered me . I want what he has . I want to be King」
Elijah:「And what of Hayley and the baby ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Every King needs an heir」
narration:Elijah is walking in the cemetery with Sophie
Elijah:「So , how do you propose this will work ?」
Sophie:「Your brother needs to cement his place in Marcel 's world . His inner circle , the daywalkers ... That 's where we begin . They 're his friends . His family . We 'll be hitting him where it hurts」

narration:Thierry is sick . Everyone is gathered around him , including Marcel . Klaus enters
Klaus Mikaelson:「I had time to sleep on it last night . I 'm not your enemy . Where my family and I failed this town ... Marcel succeeded . My blood will heal him . As though it never happened . The quarter is your home , but I would like to stay a while , if I 'm still welcome」
narration:There 's a parade . Klaus looks at it and calls someone
Klaus Mikaelson:「Caroline . I 'm standing in one of my favorite places in the world , surrounded by food , music , art , culture , and all I can think about is how much I want to show it to you . Maybe one day you 'll let me」

narration:House of the Rising Son - The Originals
Klaus Mikaelson:「My siblings and I are the first vampires in all of history , the original family . centuries ago , we helped build a town called New Orleans . Now a plot by witches has lured me back , hoping that I will defeat a tyrant , a vampire I created . My brother hopes I will find redemption through the power of family , a miracle child , part werewolf , part vampire , a hybrid . My sister is doubtful . She thinks I am beyond redemption . Despite my brother 's best efforts , I have a plan of my own . I will take back my home and reclaim what was mine . I will be King . Marcel boasts to Klaus his methods for providing fresh blood for his vampires . )」
Marcel:「( voiceover ) The city of New Orleans ... people of all stripes and flavors from all over the country come here to party on our streets . Some are just looking for fun ... some are looking for something a little darker , more dangerous . So , we invite them into my home and we give it to them . ( Diego , one of Marcel 's vampires , shows a flyer to two tourists , a man and a woman . The flyer is headed by a large , monogrammed ' M ' , beneath which reads :」

narration:ABATTOIR
 WHERE THE PARTY
 NEVER ENDS
 They enter the party and get their hands stamped with the same ' M ' monogram as the flyer .
Marcel:「( voiceover ) Then , at the stroke of midnight , everything changes , and it 's time to feed .」
narration:Marcel leads Klaus around a balcony overlooking the party . They watch as Marcel 's vampires feed ravenously on the humans , who scream in terror .
Marcel:「This is how I keep my guys happy」
( Klaus notices a crest of some sort engraved on the stone wall below:「it includes the ' M ' monogram , as well as a coiled serpent . He does not comment on it . )」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's quite an operation . Tell me - what about the victims ? Seems like a lot of graves to dig . Marcel」
Marcel:「Nothing I did n't learn from you back in the day .」
narration:Thierry , one of Marcel 's vampires , approaches the two .
Thierry:「Marcel .」
Marcel:「' Sup , Thierry ?」
Thierry:「Six of our guys were killed in a bar outside of the Quarter . Night - walkers . No one saw who .」

narration:While Marcel receives this news , Klaus looks away . Cut to Rebekah driving her red convertible ; she checks herself in the rearview mirror , wipes a drop of blood off her cheek , smiles and keeps driving .
 TITLE CARD AND OPENING CREDITS
 MIKAELSON MANSION - " You have your brother 's manners . " - " And his temper , too . "
 Rebekah parks in front of the Mikaelson mansion , leaving a message on her phone as she gets out . Hayley , inside , hears something and walks warily down the stairs .
Rebekah:「Elijah , if not answering your phone is part of your clever plan to get me back to this godforsaken city , then well done . I 'm here , and I 'm worried . Now pick up before I kick in your bloody door .」
narration:Rebekah walks up the front steps and opens the door . She walks in as Hayley comes down the stairs , wielding a fire iron .
Hayley:「Who the hell are you ?」
Rebekah:「Oh , you must be the maid . My bags are in the car - get them , will you ?」
narration:Hayley , smiling wryly , puts down the iron poker .
Hayley:「Hello . Not the maid .」
Rebekah:「Right . You 're that werewolf girl my brother , Klaus , knocked up . I was expecting to see some kind of supernatural , miracle baby bump . Guess you 're not showing yet . It 's Hayley , is n't it ?」
Hayley:「You have your brother 's manners . Rebekah」
Rebekah:「What do you mean , " long gone " ? Hayley
 Elijah is not just any vampire , and he does n't break promises . Which means Niklaus has done something dastardly and Klaus - like . Klaus ! Get out here and tell me what you 've done with our brother , you narcissistic , back - stabbing w*nk*r !」
narration:Klaus opens a pair of doors and enters the room .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Enough with all the shouting . Little sister , I should have known . I assume the six dead vampires were your doing ?」

Rebekah:「They were very rude .」
narration:The shots alternate between Rebekah calmly explaining what happened , and flashbacks to her at a bar , impaling vampires violently with a pool stick .
Rebekah:「Trying to victimize a poor , innocent girl just trying to find her way to the Quarter . So sorry , were they friends of yours ? Oh , that 's right , you do n't have any friends .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I do have friends . I have Marcel . You remember him , do n't you ? Yes , of course you do . He fancies himself the ' King of the Quarter ' now , and he has these rules about killing vampires . It 'll be fun to see what sort of punishment he comes up with for you .」
Rebekah:「I do n't care about Marcel or his rules . Elijah does n't welch on deals . What did you do to him ? Klaus」
narration:Rebekah , who had gotten up to leave the room , turns back to Klaus .
Rebekah:「I remember everything .」

narration:FLASHBACK - NEW ORLEANS , 1820 - " Are we interrupting ? " - " Yes . " - " No . "
 Rebekah walks through a doorway into a room filled with people dressed in their finery for some sort of party . They nod at Rebekah as she passes .
Rebekah:「( voiceover ) I remember how the drunken fool of a governor hid away all of our vampire sins in exchange for gold . I remember the lavish parties the governor threw , as if to impress you .」
narration:Rebekah watches Klaus as she leaves the room with two ladies . She then turns her attention to a young man , whom she kisses chastely .
Rebekah:「I remember finding a moment of affection with the governor 's son , Emil . And I remember that even Elijah was happy .」
narration:Upstairs , Elijah kisses a Creole woman while further down the hall Klaus finishes off the ladies he had left with earlier .
Celeste:「Your brother . He 's gone too far .」
Elijah:「Niklaus , there is no hope for you , is there ?」
narration:Rebekah joins them , Emil in tow .
Rebekah:「Are we interrupting ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Yes .」
Elijah:「No .」

Rebekah:「Dearest Elijah . You 've only ever wished happiness for me . Emil and I are in love . Please , let me turn him .」
narration:Klaus chuckles .
Elijah:「Rebekah , the governor has graciously agreed to hide a lot of our ... indiscretions . It would not do to turn his son into one of us .」
Rebekah:「Please . For me .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's not going to happen , Sister . If we turned every man you dropped your knickers for , then human beings would cease to exist and we 'd have no bloody food . Emil」
narration:Klaus grabs Emil by the neck and forcibly walks him down the hallway .
Elijah:「Brother -」
Rebekah:「Niklaus !」
Elijah:「Niklaus , wait !」
Rebekah:「NO !」
narration:Klaus ignores them and throws Emil off the balcony , whence he falls several storeys and apparently dies instantly . Elijah holds a sobbing Rebekah while Klaus walks off .
 NEW ORLEANS - PRESENT DAY - " Oh , and welcome home , little sister . "
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , he was n't good enough for you .」

Rebekah:「No one was ever good enough for me , Nik , you made sure of that . Now where is Elijah ? ( Klaus ' phone starts buzzing . He checks it , stands and moves to leave .
 Where are you going ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It appears the night is not quite over , yet . I 'm off for another drink with Marcel .」
Rebekah:「Elijah told me about your plan to take apart Marcel 's empire piece by piece . I do n't remember it involving you two drinking New Orleans dry together .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I know you do n't have many friends , Rebekah , but what some friends do when they get together is they drink . And when they drink , they tell secrets . Marcel has somehow found a way to control the entirety of witches in the Quarter , and I aim to uncover the ' how ' so I might take it for myself . Finding Elijah did n't make my to - do list today .」
narration:Klaus turns and walks to the door , but pauses before he leaves .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , and welcome home , little sister .」
narration:The door shuts behind him and Rebekah turns on the spot , contemplating what he 's said . She sees Hayley sitting on a landing above .

Rebekah:「You , wolf girl . I 'm going to search this house inch by inch until I find what my evil brother has done to my good one . You 're helping .」
narration:The girls walk down a spiral staircase .
Rebekah:「The governor had lots of secret rooms . I 'll show you his favorite .」
narration:They arrive in a dusty , cobwebbed cellar room . Hayley spies the coffins that Klaus keeps his siblings daggered in .
Hayley:「You think Klaus killed him .」
Rebekah:「We ca n't be killed , silly girl . That does n't stop Klaus from finding ways to torture us . He has a set of mystical silver daggers . One in the heart sends us into a deep slumber . Klaus gets his jollies from keeping us in a box , until he decides to pull the dagger out . That must be what he 's done to Elijah . This one 's mine .」
Hayley:「( incredulously ) He keeps your coffin on standby .」
Rebekah:「He likes to be prepared for when his family members inevitably disappoint him . Elijah 's is n't here - he must 've stashed him elsewhere .」
Hayley:「I feel sick .」
Rebekah:「Welcome to the family , love . You should 've run the second you realized Elijah was gone .」
Hayley:「Yeah , well , the witches have put some sort of hex on me . As long as I 'm carrying this baby , I ca n't leave New Orleans . If I do , they kill me .」
Rebekah:「Well , knowing Klaus , he 's planning a box for you the second you give birth to whatever 's cooking in your tum . I 'm leaving as soon as I find Elijah . Being daggered in a box for decades sucks , trust me . You 'd best find a way to break that hex and run .」
narration:Rebekah goes off to continue her search , leaving Hayley to consider what she 's said .
 THE FRENCH QUARTER - ROUSSEAU 'S - " Trying to scare me ? "
 Sophie is scrubbing a table inside the restaurant when the door shuts suddenly and she hears the whoosh of a vampire running unseen . She walks cautiously , listening for further sounds .
Sophie:「Hello ? Seriously , Marcel ? Trying to scare me ? I had nothing to do with the attack on your guys last night !」
narration:Some hanging pots start moving behind Sophie , as though a wind has passed through them , and she turns around . She walks toward them slowly , then grabs a knife , which she lifts in time for Rebekah to appear and grab her raised , knife - wielding arm .
Rebekah:「Sophie Deveraux . My brother , Elijah , told me about you . Know who I am ?」
Sophie:「Yeah , I know . Rebekah」
narration:THE CEMETERY - " I 've been linked , so anything you do to me , you do to Hayley . "
 Rebekah and Sophie talk while walking among the burial vaults of the cemetery .

Rebekah:「So , if I had to guess , knowing Klaus 's history , Elijah has a dagger in his chest . It 's a magical object , you 're a witch . Do a locator spell , locate the dagger , locate Elijah .」
Sophie:「I ca n't use magic . It 's punishable by death - Marcel 's rules .」
Rebekah:「Marcel ? What do you think I 'm going to do to you if you do n't give me what I want ?」
Sophie:「Not much . I 've been linked , so anything you do to me , you do to Hayley . Rebekah」
narration:Sophie gives her a significant look .
Rebekah:「Oh , right the mumzy . Well , luckily for you , Elijah seems to care about her , otherwise I 'd break your neck right here . How did Marcel get so bloody powerful , anyway ? He was n't like this when I left a hundred years ago .」
Sophie:「Marcel has a way to tell whenever there 's magic done in the Quarter . The ' how ' is n't relevant .」
Rebekah:「I 'll tell you what 's not bloody relevant - a coven of witches who ca n't do magic . Here 's an idea」
Sophie:「We practice ancestral magic . This cemetery is filled with the remains of our witch ancestors . Without access to them , we 're powerless . If we run , we 're leaving our legacy behind - our home , our family .」
Rebekah:「Well , family 's overrated . Look at me . I 'm back in a city that 's given me nothing but heartache , looking for a brother who 's hell - bent on protecting a baby I do n't care about .」
Sophie:「I find that hard to believe . You 're here , are n't you ?」
Rebekah:「I 'm here for Elijah . The instant I find him , I 'm gone . He was the one who idiotically believed this baby would be Niklaus ' redemption . And now he 's missing , probably at the hands of Klaus himself . And you were foolish enough to believe that Elijah could convince Klaus to go against Marcel , when everyone knows that they have a history .」
Sophie:「Klaus sired Marcel . I 'm aware .」
Rebekah:「You do n't understand . Marcel is not just some guy that Klaus turned into a vampire . Klaus loved him like a son .」
narration:FLASHBACK - NEW ORLEANS , 1820 - " Perhaps there is hope for our brother , after all . "
 A funeral procession , all dressed in black , follows behind a horse - drawn carriage .
Rebekah:「( voiceover ) I was there the day that they met . We were burying Emil , the governor 's only son ... or so we thought .」
narration:A man on a horse whips a young black boy , who screams in pain with each lash .
Rebekah:「( voiceover ) Turns out the governor had another son , from a mother that he owned .」

narration:Klaus steps out of the procession to turn and look at the boy . The boy , having fallen to his knees in pain , grabs an apple off the ground , turns and throws it at the man with the whip , a fierce look of hatred in his eyes . Infuriated , the man winds up for another lashing , but Klaus grabs something off the ground and hurls it with vampire strength at the man ; it hits him in the forehead , and he falls off the horse , dead . Rebekah and Elijah watch as Klaus approaches the boy .
Klaus Mikaelson:「What is your name ? Young Marcel」
narration:Klaus crouches down before the boy , getting on his level .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're a survivor , and survivors need names . How about Marcellus ?」
Young Marcel:「Marcellus ? Klaus」
narration:Klaus stands and holds out a hand to the boy , who hesitates , but then smiles , takes it and rises to his feet . Elijah and Rebekah have watched this entire exchange .
Elijah:「Perhaps there is hope for our brother , after all .」
narration:PRESENT DAY - THE CEMETERY - " Who knows what they 'll do . "

Rebekah:「Klaus saw himself in the boy . He remembered how our father used to beat him . He , too , was the b*st*rd child of a man who saw him as nothing but a beast . And that is why your plan will fail . All you 've done if bring back together two long - lost souls . Without Elijah between them , who knows what they 'll do .」
narration:Rebekah walks off , while Sophie absorbs what Rebekah has said .
 In a bar - " She must be special . "
 Marcel is sitting in a bar , drinking . Klaus enters .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , this is a far cry from last night 's party .」
narration:Klaus sees Cami sitting in the bar , writing .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Ah , in pursuit of the bartender from " Rousseau 's " , I see .」
Marcel:「She 's a work in progress .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And yet here you are , pining over her when you should be eating her for lunch . Oh , she must be special .」
Marcel:「Business first . The coroner called . He 's got my number in case any dead tourists show up .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Let me guess - dead tourists with a stamp on the hand and vampire blood in their veins ?」

Marcel:「It happens . Someone takes a drunken tumble off a balcony , or into the Mississippi ... And today I got two of them to deal with .」
narration:Klaus rises when he hears that Cami is gathering her things and leaving .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Excuse me , love . What 's that you 're studying ?」
Cami:「Abnormal psychology .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Abnormal psychology , well . Perhaps you could help me diagnose my friend over here . He 's been a little bit depressed , ca n't keep his mind off a girl . He tells me she 's a queen , fit for a king . I think he should cut his losses and move on . What 's your professional opinion ?」
Cami:「( to Marcel ) Be a nice guy , and maybe the opportunity will present itself some day .」
Marcel:「How about tonight , nine o'clock ? I 'll meet you right here ? Cami」
narration:She leaves .
Marcel:「Mm , harsh . Klaus」
narration:They smile at each other , sipping their drinks .
 Hayley buys wolfsbane - " Just a little one . "
 Hayley walks up to a shop front right when the shopkeeper appears to be leaving .
Hayley:「Hey , hey !」

Katie:「We 're closed , sorry .」
Hayley:「I just need one teeny , tiny little herb . Please ?」
Katie:「Which herb ?」
Hayley:「Crushed aconite flower .」
Katie:「Wolfsbane ? That 's a poison . You 're gon na kill a wolf ?」
Hayley:「Just a little one . Katie」
narration:Katie goes back into the shop . After a few seconds she comes back , holding a phial in her hand .
Katie:「Cut it with jimson weed . A few drops in some hot tea - that should do it .」
narration:Hayley hands her some money .
Hayley:「Here .」
narration:Katie refuses it .
Katie:「It 's an ugly town for wolves . You 're doing the right thing .」
narration:Hayley walks away . Katie picks up her phone and calls someone .
Katie:「Hey , wanna gain points ? Tell Marcel there 's a werewolf in the Quarter .」
narration:A new nightwalker - " Dealer 's choice . "
 Marcel and Klaus are in a garage .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You take me to the nicest places .」

narration:Thierry and Diego open the doors of a car . Two people , Tina and Josh , are lying in the car .
Marcel:「Welcome to the land of the newly dead . I wo n't waste your time . ( to Thierry ) I trust you filled them in ?」
Thierry:「To be honest , not much in the way of potential here .」
Marcel:「Yeah , well , I just lost six night - walkers . I got holes to fill . I 'll keep this quick . That itch you feel ? That 's the need to feed coming on strong , a hunger for human blood . Drink it - you 're a vampire . Do n't - you die . Again . This time for good . Right here in a body bag . ( to Klaus ) Hey , what do you think , cute dorky girl or gay best friend ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Dealer 's choice .」
Marcel:「Dealer 's choice , okay .」
narration:Marcel shows them a coin .
Marcel:「Whoever picks up this coin gets to live forever . The other one dies .」
narration:He lays down the coin between them .
Marcel:「Go !」
narration:Josh looks to the Tina . She grabs the coin . Marcel laughs .
Marcel:「Damn girl ! I said , damn !」

Josh:「How could you ! ?」
Tina:「Get over it , Josh . It 's not like I had a choice . You would 've done the same thing , but you 're such a little -」
narration:Marcel kills Tina by breaking her neck .
Marcel:「Let her die in cold storage . Got a thing about people who betray their own friends . C 'm on . Let 's go for a ride .」
Thierry or Diego:「Go !」
narration:Rebekah watches from a balcony above as Klaus loads Josh into he car , and Marcel talks on his cell phone . She recalls a memory of Marcel and Klaus .
 Flashback - " I 'm gon na marry you some day . "
 Rebekah practices fencing with a young Marcel .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Attack au Fer ! Now counter - parry . A hit ! Palpable hit .」
Marcel:「I 'm gon na marry you some day .」
Rebekah:「I would never marry someone who could n't best me in a duel . Another lesson ?」

narration:The memory segues into a later memory ; Marcel is a grown man now . They duel until Marcel backs Rebekah into a corner . They remove their fencing masks . Marcel is about to kiss Rebekah , when Klaus appears and they step back from each other .
 New Orleans - Present day
 Rebekah is standing on a balcony . Marcel finds her .
Marcel:「Rebekah Mikaelson . Come to teach me another lesson ? Last time I saw you , Royal Street was burning and you all were fleeing from the city from your daddy .」
Rebekah:「I thought you were dead .」
Marcel:「You never looked back to find out . Why are you here ?」
Rebekah:「Elijah . I think Klaus has done something to him .」
Marcel:「Stop . Stop right there . If there is one thing I learned about you Mikaelsons , it 's do n't get in the middle of family feuding . Does n't end well .」
narration:FLASHBACK - 1830s
Marcel:「There is nothing going on between us . I swear it , on my life .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Your life means something to me . Give me the privilege of honesty or that will cease to be the case .」

Marcel:「I like her . And I think it 's mutual , but I have n't done anything about it . I would n't , not -」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And you wo n't . I love my sister , but she lacks fortune when it comes to men . They come and go for her , but I am the constant . She 's my family .」
Marcel:「You said I was family . I have begged you to turn me into a vampire .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And I told you , I will turn you when you 're ready . You go near Rebekah again , and you never will be .」
narration:PRESENT DAY
Rebekah:「Even after all you 've achieved , you 're still scared of him .」
Marcel:「I 'm not scared of anyone .」
Rebekah:「If I find out you know where Elijah is , you need n't fear Klaus - I 'll kill you myself .」
Marcel:「Nostalgia 's a blast and all , but I ca n't help you . It was nice seeing you , though . Good luck finding what you 're looking for .」

narration:Marcel jumps off the balcony .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 A BAR IN THE QUARTER
 Marcel walks into a bar , his eyes searching the place until he spots Klaus sitting at the bar .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I know that face - woman trouble .」
Marcel:「You 're a dick , you know that ? Why did n't you tell me your sister 's back in town ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , I thought it would be more amusing for you to find out for yourself .」
Marcel:「Is there anything else that I need to know ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Only that she 's grown considerably more insane in the last century .」
Marcel:「Or maybe that it was her who killed my guys ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Doubtful . Unless that biker bar is frequented by small - town , high school quarterbacks , I ca n't imagine she 'd be interested .」
narration:Marcel 's phone rings and he answers it . Klaus listens with his vampire hearing .
Marcel:「Yeah ?」
Caller:「Just got a tip - someone saw a werewolf in Bienville Park .」
Marcel:「Get a couple night - walkers to run it down . Bring me back its head .」
narration:He hangs up .

Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , I guess that solves the mystery of the murdered riffraff . At least my sister 's in the clear .」
Marcel:「About that . I do n't have time for Mikaelson family drama . You 're my guest - keep your sister in line .」
narration:Klaus responds , his voice rising as Marcel leaves .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'd have a greater chance of draining the Mississippi with a straw !」
narration:BIENVILLE PARK
 Hayley sits on a bench , dripping the poison into a cup .
Hayley:「( to herself ) Come on , Hayley . One upset stomach and all this stupid drama is ancient history .」
narration:She lifts the cup toward her face , closes her eyes , then opens them and lowers the cup again without drinking it . She sighs , then hears a branch snap nearby . She stands up , looking around , then turns to find a vampire right in front of her .
Vampire:「Dumb move , coming into the Quarter . You 're coming with me , wolf .」
Hayley:「I have had it up to here with vampires telling me what to do .」

narration:She throws the cup 's contents into his face , and he roars in pain . She spins around , only to be faced with two more vampires . Suddenly Rebekah shows up , snaps the neck of one vampire and rips the heart out of the back of the other .
Rebekah:「( to the dead vampires ) Now , that is no way to treat a pregnant lady . I do hate bad manners .」
narration:She throws the heart on the ground . Hayley gapes at her , still in shock .
 MIKAELSON MANSION
 Klaus throws a final body onto a small pile in the front courtyard while he berates Rebekah and Hayley for their behavior .
Klaus Mikaelson:「This is why I told you never to leave the house . Werewolves are banned in the Quarter . I had a plan , and your little nighttime stroll put it all in peril ! Leave him !」
narration:Rebekah had started walking toward the pile of bodies - one of them was still alive - but at Klaus ' last command , she stops .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 've done enough , do n't you think ? Leaving a trail of bodies like a road map to my door ?」

Rebekah:「If I had n't overheard this lot bragging about werewolf heads , everyone here would be screwed . And do n't give me that crap about having a plan . You 've had all the time in the world to execute a plan , and no one 's seen you do a damn thing ! Elijah made a deal to protect your child , so that it could save you from your selfish , rotten self . But you obviously do n't give a damn about the child or Elijah , because what have you done to honor it ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I have done everything . Let me spell it out for you , shall I ? From the day I arrived , Marcel has n't trusted me . From Day One , he 's had his vampires ingest toxic vervain which , as you know , little sister , protects them from my mind control .」
narration:While Klaus explains what he 's been doing , the scene cuts to a flashback of Klaus in a bar , where the humans Tina and Josh sit with their hands stamped with the monogrammed ' M ' . Klaus snaps their necks .

Klaus Mikaelson:「( voiceover ) I needed a spy , someone on the inside with me who Marcel would never suspect . So , I created a Day Zero and got there first . Marcel had just lost six vampires , thanks to your little murder spree , and he needed new recruits . So , I made the new one mine , before he 'd had even a drop of vervain .」
narration:In another brief flashback , Klaus gets into the car with Josh , the new vampire , while Marcel talks outside on his phone . Klaus compels Josh .
Klaus Mikaelson:「( to Josh ) Now , let 's have a little chat about what you can do for me . ( present day , to Rebekah ) But we all know the real way to a man is through his heart , so ...」
narration:FLASHBACK
 In another brief flashback , Klaus talks to Cami at a bar .
Klaus Mikaelson:「So , my mate , Marcel . Nice bloke , do n't you think ?」
Cami:「No . He 's charming , sexy , confident , incredibly hot . But let 's be honest - he 's a bad boy , right ? Like you . And right now , I only need good in my life , not someone who 's -」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Tragically wounded and damaged by demons he ca n't escape .」

Cami:「The - damaged ones . They 're not good . At least , not for me .」
narration:She moves to leave , but Klaus rises and takes her hand .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I understand , I do . However - ( compelling her ) - give him one chance , then I need you to tell me where he goes , and who he sees .」
narration:PRESENT DAY
 Klaus grabs the vampire that 's still alive from the pile .
Klaus Mikaelson:「And this one - I 'm gon na drain him of vervain , compel him to believe his mates found religion and moved to Utah , so that he can explain to Marcel why he lost three more vampires tonight .」
narration:He drags the vampire into the house ; Rebekah and Hayley follow him inside .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Does anyone have any more questions ? No ? Good , because I have a question . Hayley , what were you doing in the bloody French Quarter in the first place ? Answer me !」
Rebekah:「Leave her be .」
Hayley:「You wanna know what I was doing ? I was buying poison , so I could put your little baby out of its misery .」
narration:Klaus runs at her with vampire speed and pins her to the door by the neck . She gasps for air .

Rebekah:「Nik ! NIK !」
narration:Rebekah runs at Klaus with vampire speed , pushes him off of Hayley and grabs him by the shoulders . Hayley coughs and splutters , massaging her throat .
Rebekah:「Keep your hands off her ! She is pregnant , for God 's sake ! All of this bluster about not wanting the child , and then the second she tells you she 's ready to get rid of it ? It 's okay to care . It 's okay to want something . That 's all Elijah was trying to do , all he 's ever wanted for you . All we 've ever wanted .」
narration:Klaus , calmed down but reeling from being confronted with his feelings , sits down on the stairs . Rebekah sits beside him .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I gave Elijah to Marcel .」
Rebekah:「What ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Marcel was nervous . It 's bad enough one Original returned to town , but two ? His crew was getting antsy . He wanted Elijah gone , so ... I gave him a peace offering .」
Rebekah:「You bartered our brother ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「I have a plan . Gain Marcel 's trust , dismantle his empire , honor Elijah 's wish that that baby be born . I am executing that plan the only way I know how . If you do n't like it , there 's the door . See if I care .」
narration:Klaus rises and leaves the room . Rebekah leans back , her work cut out for her .
 Later , Rebekah is sitting on the back porch of the house when Hayley comes out and joins her .
Hayley:「I know you do n't know me very well ... but thanks . I appreciate what you did in there .」
Rebekah:「Us girls have got to look out for each other .」
Hayley:「What is it with you two ? You say you hate him , but the way you deal with him , it 's so clear . Even when you hate him , you still love him .」

Rebekah:「I guess when you spend a thousand years with someone , deciding to quit them is like losing a part of yourself . But sometimes the hate is just ... so powerful . Emil was n't the only boyfriend of mine that Klaus killed . He did it again , and again , and every time I found someone to care about . He just kept doing it until , finally , I stopped falling in love . He said he was protecting me from my mistakes , that no one was ever good enough for his little sister . Until one day , someone was .」
narration:FLASHBACK - 1830s
 Marcel approaches Rebekah in the courtyard where they practice fencing .
Rebekah:「How was the river ? Marcel」
narration:Rebekah , slightly nervous , rises .
Rebekah:「I should go inside -」
narration:Marcel blocks her way and moves her so her back is against the wall . Marcel kisses her passionately , and Rebekah seems to enjoy it , but after a moment she pushes him away .
Rebekah:「My brother will kill you . Marcel」
narration:He kisses her again , but suddenly Klaus pulls Marcel off her , shoves him against a wall and shouts at him , fencing sword in hand .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Did I not warn you ?」

Rebekah:「Klaus , I beg of you ! He is not like any other . You saw it in him from the very first day . You saved him , protected him ... you raised him . You can not kill him .」
narration:Rebekah lays a hand on Klaus ' sword arm , which drops slowly . Marcel sighs in relief as the sword clatters on the ground .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You are right . I can not .」
narration:Suddenly , Klaus daggers Rebekah in the heart .
Klaus Mikaelson:「But you , dear sister , need a lesson in what you can and can not take from me .」
narration:Marcel watches , horrified , as Rebekah weakens in Klaus ' arms .
 PRESENT DAY
Hayley:「If you know Marcel has Elijah , why do n't you just get him back yourself ?」
Rebekah:「Because , if I cross my brother , there 's still a coffin downstairs with my name on it .」
narration:Hayley eyes Rebekah for a moment , then reaches down and retrieves something wrapped in cloth . She unfolds it and reveals the two silver daggers .
Rebekah:「Oh , my god .」

Hayley:「I found them under your coffin . So , if a couple of antique steak knives were the only things stopping you from getting Elijah back , then here you go .」
narration:Hayley offers the daggers to Rebekah , who takes them in slight awe . Finally , she smiles , and Hayley smiles back .
 A BAR IN THE FRENCH QUARTER
 Marcel brings a bottle of wine to a table and sits with Cami .
Marcel:「I sent everyone home for the night . I am your humble host .」
Cami:「Oh ... okay . Extra points for flair .」
Marcel:「And the night 's just started . What made you decide to come ?」
Cami:「Everyone deserves a chance .」
narration:Suddenly the doors of the restaurant swing wide open and Rebekah bursts inside .
Rebekah:「You lied to me . Where 's my brother ?」
Marcel:「Hello to you , too . Cami , Rebekah - Rebekah , Cami .」
Rebekah:「I see you still have a thing for blondes .」
Cami:「Hey-」
narration:Rebekah grabs Marcel by the neck and vampire speeds him across the room , slamming him against the wall .
Rebekah:「Tell me where Elijah is .」
Cami:「What the hell is going on ? Rebekah」
narration:Marcel merely looks at Rebekah ; there is a brief flash of the time they had passionately kissed , as though Marcel has sent the memory to her deliberately .
Marcel:「No , you wo n't .」
narration:Slowly , Rebekah backs off , releasing him .
Rebekah:「Perhaps you 're right .」
narration:After a moment 's silence , Rebekah vamp - speeds over to Cami and pins her by the throat against the wall .
Rebekah:「But I will kill her . Marcel」
narration:Rebekah waits another moment , then releases Cami , who gasps for air .
Cami:「What the hell are you people ?」
narration:Marcel gently takes her by the shoulders .
Marcel:「Shh , it 's okay . ( compelling her ) Go home , forget all this , and just know that I will make it up to you . I promise . ( to Rebekah ) You wanna see Elijah ? Fine . Follow me .」
narration:Rebekah follows him out of the restaurant , leaving Cami alone .
 DAVINA 'S ATTIC ROOMEdit
 Marcel opens the door to an attic and enters , Rebekah following behind him . She sees Elijah 's coffin , and moves to enter the room but can not - she is magically barred entry .
Rebekah:「Invite me in .」
Marcel:「Got ta ask the lady of the house . Davina , come on out , sweetheart .」
narration:Davina enters the room and stands at Marcel 's side .
Marcel:「Invite her in .」
Davina:「Come in .」

narration:Rebekah enters , strides over to Elijah 's coffin and opens it to find her brother inside . She grabs the dagger and starts to pull it out .
Davina:「I would n't do that .」
narration:Rebekah , magically compelled , shoves the dagger back in .
Rebekah:「Who the hell are you ? Davina」
Marcel:「Yeah . Rebekah is an Original , which means she ca n't be killed .」
Davina:「She does n't seem very nice .」
Marcel:「She can be ... but she has n't been very nice to me tonight .」
Davina:「( to Rebekah ) Then I 'm afraid it 's time for you to leave .」
narration:Without moving a muscle , Davina magically propels Rebekah across the room , slamming her against walls several times before sending her through a door , which shuts behind her .
 FLASHBACK - NEW ORLEANS , 1887
 Rebekah awakens , her hair styled in the 1830s fashion , and sits up in bed . Klaus sits nearby , twirling the silver dagger with its point balanced on a table .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , it 's about time . I was bored waiting ... but I did so want to see your face , and it is , indeed , priceless .」

Rebekah:「You b*st*rd . What day is it ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Sunday .」
Rebekah:「I have been daggered for a whole week ? Marcel - what have you done to him ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's 1887 , Rebekah . You 've been daggered for 52 years . Rebekah」
Rebekah:「No .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「-I could turn him instead , as he 's always wanted , in exchange for giving you up .」
Rebekah:「No . He would n't do that to me .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , but he did .」
narration:Marcel enters the room bearing a candle . He looks at Rebekah , expressionless , and Rebekah squints her eyes shut , devastated .
 NEW ORLEANS , PRESENT DAY
 In present day , Rebekah awakens on the same bed as she did in 1887 , Marcel standing at the end of it .
Marcel:「Welcome back , Rebekah . You were out for quite a while .」
Rebekah:「Where am I ? How 'd I get here ?」

Marcel:「You upset Davina . I 'm glad you two finally got to meet . Now you know what you 're dealing with .」
Rebekah:「Is this my old room ?」
Marcel:「Oh , it 's mine now . Just like this town is mine , Davina 's mine , and Elijah is mine until I feel like giving him back . What was once yours , what was once your brother 's - it 's now mine .」
narration:He turns and walks toward the door , turning back to Rebekah to say one last thing .
Marcel:「And do n't ever touch Cami again .」
narration:MIKAELSON MANSION
 It 's morning ; Klaus enters Hayley 's room while she 's still sleeping . He watches her for a moment , then reaches into her bag , withdrawing from it the vial of wolfsbane . He opens it and lifts it to his nose to smell , when Hayley speaks .
Hayley:「I did n't use it .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're awake .」
Hayley:「I could barely sleep all night . This house is like a freaking swamp sauna .」
narration:She sits up in bed while Klaus stares out the window .

Klaus Mikaelson:「What stopped you ? You could have been free of all of this ... of me .」
Hayley:「Yeah , well ... when I was fighting off those vampires , I - I realized I was n't just protecting myself . Maybe it has to do with the fact that my birth parents gave me up , and my adopted parents kicked me out . All I know is push came to shove , and ... I realized I would n't let anyone hurt it .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm beginning to think we 're a lot alike , you and I. We 're both castoffs who have learned to fight when we 're backed into a corner .」
Hayley:「Well , we 're backed into a corner now .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Ah , that we are . It 's time to fight ... little wolf .」
narration:After gently placing a hand on Hayley 's shoulder , Klaus backs away and moves to leave .
Hayley:「This whole thing with Marcel - the deal you have with the witches , trying to take him down , take what 's his - Rebekah told me that you two once loved each other like family . What happened ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「I made Marcel everything that he is . I treated him like a son . And when my father chased me and my family from New Orleans a hundred years ago , we believed Marcel was killed - we each mourned him , in our own way . Yet , when I returned , I found not only had he survived , he had thrived . Instead of seeking us out , instead of sticking together as one , he made a choice to take everything my family had built and make it his own . Now , he is living in our home , he is sleeping in our beds . That ' M ' he stamps everywhere ... it 's not for ' Marcel ' . It 's for ' Mikaelson ' . I want it all back , and if I have to push him out to get it , then that 's exactly what I 'll do . I 'll have someone see to the air conditioning .」
narration:Klaus leaves Hayley 's room and hurries down the stairs , only to meet Rebekah as she enters the front door .
Rebekah:「You were right . The girl , Cami - she 's the key . Marcel likes her , and because of that I got to see the secret weapon of his that you 've been going on about .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , do n't stand on ceremony . What is it ?」

Rebekah:「It 's not a ' what ' , it 's a ' who ' . A girl , Davina . She ca n't be more than sixteen , and I have never felt power like that .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「A witch .」
Rebekah:「She 's not just any witch , she 's something I 've never seen before , something beyond powerful , and now because of you she has Elijah . Who knows what she could do to him . Klaus」
narration:Rebekah stops to think , then looks confounded .
Rebekah:「That clever bitch . I do n't know .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What 's wrong ?」
Rebekah:「She wiped my memory of the location . Marcel possesses a weapon bigger and more powerful than an Original , and you handed our brother to him ! How many times will Elijah forgive you ? How long until his hope for your redemption finally dies ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I did what I had to do ! Marcel took our home !」
Rebekah:「And our home is worthless without family . I am finding Elijah - whatever it takes . Are you going to help me ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Whatever it takes .」

narration:Hayley is sitting on the floor , holding a thick book in her hands , reading . Klaus and Rebekah are standing nearby .
Elijah:「( voiceover ) August 1359 . I have noticed a difference in my siblings . Our bond strains beneath the pressure of our life as vampires . Each day removes them further from the humanity we once possessed . My sweet sister , Rebekah , has grown quite indifferent to brutality .」
narration:In a flashback Rebekah can be seen , killing the vampires who attacked Hayley in the previous episode .
Elijah:「( voiceover ) However , the true problem remains my brother , Niklaus .」
narration:In a flashback Klaus can be seen pouring petrol over the dead vampires and burning them .
Elijah:「( voiceover ) He continues to hide his loneliness with cruelty . Still , I cling to the hope that I , as their eldest brother , can lead them down the correct path , a path charged with the power of a family united . For if I fail , our family 's legacy will end in darkness .」
Rebekah:「I can not believe you disposed of those vampires without me . You know how I love to set things on fire .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Was I supposed to leave them in the front yard to rot ? Besides , they were my responsibility . They attacked the helpless pregnant girl who 's carrying my child .」

Rebekah:「Oh , I am so moved by your newfound sense of fatherly duties towards the werewolf carrying your hybrid bun in her oven .」
narration:Hayley enters the room
Hayley:「The werewolf would like to know what the plan is .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , that depends what plan you mean , love」
narration:Rebekah takes a pencil from the desk beside her and throws it in Klaus ' direction . Klaus catches it easily before it can impale his face .
Hayley:「The plan to rescue Elijah . You know , the good brother . The one who is now in the possession of your mortal enemy after you stabbed him in the back .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「In the front , if we 're being specific .」
Hayley:「You two said that you would get him back . So is there a plan , or what ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Okay . Well , firstly , Marcel is not my mortal enemy - he 's my friend , albeit one who is unaware that I 'm trying to sabotage his hold over the supernatural community of the French Quarter , but a friend nonetheless . And secondly , I daggered Elijah in order to gain Marcel 's trust . If I had known he would place my brother in the hands of a particularly nasty teenaged witch , I certainly would have weighed my options a bit differently . And thirdly , sister , please .」
Rebekah:「And thirdly , the plan , as you have demanded , is for Niklaus to simply ask Marcel for Elijah back .」
Hayley:「That 's ... that 's not the whole plan , is it ?」
Rebekah:「Please , Klaus may be a miserable excuse for a sibling , but there is none more diabolical .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And that 's only the Plan A , love . There 's always a Plan B.」
Hayley:「And what 's Plan B ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「War .」
narration:TITLE CARD AND OPENING CREDITS
 THE ABATTOIRE
 Marcel gets fitted for a suit , accompanied by Thierry .
Marcel:「Damn , I do look good in a suit .」

narration:Thierry chuckles , then turns to the television , where photos of Tina McGreevy and Joshua Rosza , the tourists that Klaus turned , flash on the screen .
Thierry:「My guy at the docks is gon na come forward as an eyewitness , saying he saw those two drunkenly fall into the Mississippi . They 'll be dredging for weeks . No one will come looking around here .」
Marcel:「That 's good , considering one 's dead in a dumpster behind the county morgue and the other one is a vampire now . Anything else ?」
narration:The tailor suddenly pricks her finger on a pin .
Tailor:「Ow !」
Marcel:「Allow me , darling .」
narration:Marcel crouches down and takes her finger into his mouth , cleaning the blood off .
Thierry:「One thing . I sent 4 nightwalkers to look into a werewolf sighting in the Quarter . I have n't heard from them since .」
Marcel:「That makes 10 dead nightwalkers in the last week . You think the werewolves are back in town trying to start some trouble ?」
Thierry:「Look , I know you and Klaus are friends , but the fact is , since the Originals showed up-」
narration:Klaus arrives .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , come now , Thierry . You 're not still upset about that little , toxic werewolf bite I gave you , are you ? I thought we were at bygones .」

Thierry:「( to Marcel ) I see you 've given him free rein of your compound now , too .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Yes . Well , seeing as my family and I lived here , built the place , in fact-」
Marcel:「All right . Come on . You both know the drill . Thierry 's my guy , inner circle . Klaus is my old - time friend and sire . He 's also a guest here . Peace , all right ? All right . ( to Klaus ) What you need , my brother ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm afraid my sister Rebekah is insisting I demand Elijah 's return . She 's quite worked up about it . Marcel」
Thierry:「We 're not gon na have 3 Originals walking around town , are we ? Half our guys think the sister killed the nightwalkers .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Is that an accusation against an Original ?」
Thierry:「Eh .」
narration:Klaus goes storms at Thierry , who looks to be ready for a confrontation , but Marcel intercedes .
Marcel:「What did I say about peace ? ( to Klaus ) Come on . Walk with me .」

narration:Klaus smiles smugly at Thierry as Marcel steers him out of the room . They walk out along the balcony of the building .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You inner circle man lacks a sense of humor .」
Marcel:「He 's a little overprotective , but loyal to a fault . I saved his life back in the forties , found him dying of a war wound outside a VA hospital . He 'd kill for me and die for me . Plus , that boy can play the trumpet like you would not believe . Maybe I 'll see if he can play a little tonight at the party . You 're coming , right ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「How can I miss my chance to meet the city councilman as he accepts your gigantic charitable donation ?」
Marcel:「Oh , he 's a schmuck , but he lets us do our thing in exchange for certain community services , like keeping our fangs out of the locals . Listen , about your brother ... I would love to help you out , but Thierry is right . My guys are on edge . They see the Original family moving in , vampires dying , it makes them nervous . If I hand Elijah back now , it might give the wrong impression about who 's really in charge here . You know what I mean ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You understand I had to ask .」

narration:THE FRENCH QUARTER
 Rebekah walks through the Quarter , talking on her cell phone . The shots alternate between Rebekah out in the Quarter and Klaus in the cellar of the Mikaelson mansion .
Rebekah:「Niklaus , for the love of Mary Magdalene , how long does it take to ask a simple question ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Much longer than you 'd think , considering the answer was , as expected , " no " . Marcel 's man , Thierry , is suspicious . He thinks you killed 10 nightwalkers .」
Rebekah:「Well , that 's a lie . I only killed 8 . Should I make Thierry the ninth ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Marcel is playing friendly . We ca n't kill the favorite son , or he 'll catch onto us . RebekahIndeed . Do you know what to do with the witch ?」
Rebekah:「I believe I do . Klaus」
narration:Klaus hangs up . He turns to the vampire Joshua , who has been minding Klaus ' vampire hostage .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I ordered you to drain him of blood . What 's taking so long ?」
Joshua:「Sorry . I 'm not , like , medieval torture expert guy .」

narration:Klaus grabs a pitchfork and impales the vampire with it .
Joshua:「What did he do to you , anyway ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's not about what he did . It 's about what he 's going to do when we 're done here , which is whatever I want him to , just like you . For example , drive this through his torso .」
narration:Klaus , having removed the pitchfork from the vampire , compels Joshua and hands the weapon to him . Joshua immediately obeys .
Joshua:「That is crazy . I did n't want to do it , but I did it anyway .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's called mind compulsion . Vampires can compel humans . Originals , like my siblings and I , can also compel vampires , and no one can compel Originals . You following ?」
narration:Joshua nods .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Good . That is how a brand - new nightwalker such as yourself is here doing my bidding with no one the wiser .」
Joshua:「But I never had my guts drained out of me .」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Yes . That , young Joshua , is because I got to you before you had even a drop of herbal vervain in your system . You see , it prevents compulsion . Marcel has had his whole crew taking it since I returned to town , and that is why our friend here needs to be bled dry of it , so I can compel him to follow my every command . And with my brother currently in captivity awaiting rescue , we ca n't afford to be gentle about it , can we ?」
narration:Klaus takes back the pitchfork and runs it into the vampire , twisting it in .
 THE FRENCH QUARTER - JARDIN GRIS
 Rebekah waits outside the shop and turns to greet Sophie , who is approaching on the sidewalk .
Rebekah:「Oh , so glad you could make it . Elijah only lies daggered and rotting whilst you dilly - dally .」
Sophie:「You 're lucky I came at all . What do you want ?」
Rebekah:「Hayley was attacked last night by Marcel 's crew because somebody told him there was a werewolf in the Quarter . She only made one stop . Whoever saw her here ratted her out . Watch and learn .」

narration:Rebekah turns and walks into the shop . Sophie follows her in . Inside the shop , Katie emerges from a back room with a box , and sees Sophie .
Katie:「Hey , Soph .」
Sophie:「Hey , Katie .」
narration:Katie sees Rebekah touching an item hanging in the shop ; she does n't show sign of recognition towards Rebekah .
Katie:「That 's filled with marigold - great for attracting the opposite s*x . It would look awesome on you .」
Rebekah:「I very seriously doubt that . Do you have any others , one with , say - I do n't know - wolfsbane , perhaps ?」
Katie:「Wolfsbane ? Why would you want that ?」
narration:Rebekah vamp - runs at Katie , and holds her up by the neck .
Rebekah:「Please no not play dumb with me .」
narration:Rebekah slams her down on a table .
Sophie:「Rebekah !」
Katie:「I just sold a werewolf some herbs . That 's all .」
Rebekah:「Are you lying to me , Katie ? I suggest you answer my question honestly .」
Katie:「( choking ) Sophie-」
Sophie:「Just answer the question , Katie , please .」
Katie:「Yes . I told someone , but you do n't understand . I - I love him .」
narration:Rebekah throws Katie down onto the floor violently . She places the heel of her stiletto directly over Katie 's throat threateningly .
Rebekah:「And tell me , who is this vampire Romeo of yours ? Shall I count to 3 ?」
narration:MIKAELSON MANSION - CELLAR
 Klaus pulls the pitchfork out of the vampire and hands it to Joshua .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Be quick about it . I have an army to build , and one compelled minion does not an army make .」

narration:Klaus answers his phone , which has been buzzing . The shots alternate between Klaus in the cellar and Rebekah in the Quarter .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well ?」
Rebekah:「You were right about the traitor . Luckily , she 's just a kid and she does n't know anything about us and what we 're up to . Do you want to hear the part that 's gon na please you the most ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , do tell .」
Rebekah:「She 's in love with someone in Marcel 's inner circle . Guess who it is ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Right - hand - man type , favors silly caps ?」
Rebekah:「Two points for you . Thierry is fraternizing with the enemy .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , that means he just unwittingly became the key to our entire plan .」
Rebekah:「I told you you 'd be pleased .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , to be young and in love in a city where witches and vampires are at war . How very tragic .」
narration:MIKAELSON MANSION
 Hayley eavesdrops from the hallway ; Sophie , Rebekah , and Klaus are arguing behind a closed door .

Sophie:「Are you out of your mind ? No way .」
Rebekah:「It 's very simple . We need you to perform a teeny , tiny locator spell to help us find our brother .」
Sophie:「Witches who practice magic in this town get caught , and they get killed .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Yes , about that . It seems you left out a crucial detail when we made our deal - Marcel 's secret weapon , the way he knows when a witch is using magic .」
Rebekah:「Girl about yay high , cute as a button , anger issues .」
narration:Sophie seems to be in shock .
Sophie:「Davina ? Where have you seen her ?」
Rebekah:「I do n't know . The little brat erased my memory right after she threw me out a window with her bloody mind .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Let me cut to the chase . Davina has Elijah . You witches , I assume , want to get Davina away from Marcel . We do n't know where she is . Ergo , we need magic .」
Sophie:「Davina would sense it .」

Rebekah:「Unless , of course , another witch - say , a traitor to the cause , Katie for example - was to perform much more powerful magic at the same time . That would create a smokescreen , concealing your very small spell from Davina .」
Sophie:「Katie does n't deserve to die .」
narration:Klaus angrily slams his hands on the table and stands up .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Sophie Deveraux . You 're in no position to be so principled . You ca n't win a war without a few strategic losses , no matter how regrettable they may be . How many times have the vampires been one step ahead , known something they should n't ? Your sister , executed in the public square for practicing magic , who knew she 'd be caught ? Did she even attempt to flee ?」
Sophie:「She was caught hiding in a cargo hold of a freighter before it set sail down the Mississippi .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And who , pray tell , of Marcel 's valued inner circle manages his business at the docks ?」
Sophie:「Katie 's boyfriend , Thierry .」
narration:THE ABATTOIREdit
 Thierry plays his trumpet in the courtyard ; Klaus and Marcel watch .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're right . He 's good .」

Marcel:「Right ? Music man , I call him . Ladies love him , but he 's spoken for . He knocks around with this pretty little witch , says he loves her , but I do n't know .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Your brightest soldier is fraternizing with your enemy , and you do n't care . MarcelStill ... You do n't want the witches to get too bold , given that a witch 's tip about a werewolf in town led to the disappearance of your nightwalkers . I 'm sure you 've considered the possibility that it could 've been a trap . Marcel」
narration:THE FRENCH QUARTER - ROUSSEAU 'S
 Rebekah talks to Cami at the bar .
Rebekah:「And so then I moved back here to be closer to my brothers because - let 's face it - family 's important , right , Camille ?」
Cami:「Cami . I have to change this name tag . Drunk guys keep hitting on me in French . You sure you have n't been in here before ? Your face looks so familiar .」
Rebekah:「You must have seen me out and about . Are n't you dating Marcel Gerard ? He 's a pal of mine ... sort of . I heard he had a crush on the blonde bartender at Rousseau 's .」

Cami:「I would hardly call it dating . He 's wooing me ... sort of . I do n't know . I mean , he 's very charming , which probably means I should run for the hills .」
Rebekah:「I 'm kind of in an on - again / off - again thing myself at the moment .」
Cami:「Those are the worst , are n't they ? The ones you ca n't shake , even though you know better , and you always know better ?」
Rebekah:「I like you , Cami . Most girls have the unfortunate tendency of being whiny little twits .」
Cami:「Thanks ... I think . Rebekah」
narration:Cami smiles noncommittally , shrugging .
 MIKAELSON MANSION
 Klaus sits at a desk perusing some papers when his phone starts buzzing . He answers it ; the shots alternate between Klaus at the mansion and Rebekah at Rousseau 's .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Little sister .」
Rebekah:「Well , brother , I believe I 've made certain Marcel will be properly distracted tonight .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Dare I ask ?」
Rebekah:「Let 's just say his attention will not be on us . I did my bit . What are you doing to ensure Elijah 's safe return ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Currently , I 'm preparing insurance against the tender - hearted .」
Rebekah:「Meaning ? Klaus」
narration:Cut to the Cauldron , where vampires jump from the balconies causing mayhem and witches scream in response .
Klaus Mikaelson:「And I , in turn , have arranged for things to go tragically wrong .」
narration:Cut to a flashback from earlier that day - Klaus , in the cellar with Joshua and the vampire .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You understand what you 're to do ? ( The vampire nods . ) Good .」
narration:Back at the Cauldron , vampires continue to upturn tables and destroy things while witches scream . Thierry sneaks off through a back door into Jardin Gris . Katie sees him and runs to greet him with a hug and kiss .
Katie:「Hey ! What 's happening out there ?」
Thierry:「Oh , it 's Klaus . He 's convinced Marcel that the witches are planning to make a move against him . Marcel wants us to send a message ...」
narration:Thierry knocks over some shelves , looking apologetic .
Thierry:「And if he thought I was playing favorites because I 'm in love with a witch-」
Katie:「Say that again .」

Thierry:「I love you , Katie . And all this is gon na be okay , I promise .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「( voiceover ) Marcel may not be concerned with Thierry 's romantic entanglements ...」
narration:Thierry walks out of the Jardin Gris , bumping into the vampire Klaus tortured and compelled .
Thierry:「I already got that one .」
narration:Thierry walks away . The vampire goes into the shop anyway . Cut to Klaus at his desk .
Klaus Mikaelson:「But there are other crimes which he 'll be less inclined to so easily forgive ...」
narration:Cut to the Cauldron . Thierry hears screams from inside the Jardin Gris . He turns to see the vampire dragging Katie outside , biting her neck as she screams .
Thierry:「Leave her alone ! Get off !」
narration:He throws the vampire across the courtyard ; the vampire smashes onto a table . Thierry runs over to him , grabs a broken table leg , and uses it to stake the vampire , killing him . The courtyard goes silent , and the other vampires circle around the scene of the crime .

Klaus Mikaelson:「( voiceover ) Killing a vampire , for example . That would be unforgivable . If Katie hopes to save her one true love from Marcel 's punishment , well , a rescue mission like that will require something positively magical . But then ... what 's worth dying for , if not love ?」
narration:At the Cauldron , Katie stares at Thierry , horrified , and Thierry himself looks like he knows the consequences will be dire .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 THE ABATTOIR - MASQUERADE GALA
 Rebekah and Klaus enter the party , arm in arm , taking in the dark , wild atmosphere . Acrobats perform , dancers handle exotic animals , and confetti falls glittering upon the party guests .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , this certainly is a fitting backdrop for tonight 's events , I must say .」
narration:Rebekah and Klaus spot Cami as she enters the party , wearing white angel 's wings and a vintage white beaded dress . Rebekah looks pleased , but Klaus ' smile falls .
Klaus Mikaelson:「What 's she doing here ?」
Rebekah:「What better way to distract Marcel than to put his very human , new girl in a room chock full of vampires ?」
narration:Rebekah crosses the courtyard to greet Cami .

Rebekah:「Hello , darling . You look precious .」
narration:Marcel notices Cami 's arrival from a balcony above .
Cami:「This party is ridiculous , but I think I [ unintelligible ] with this dress .」
narration:Cami makes eye contact with Klaus , and nods at him .
Cami:「Is he the infamous on - again / off - again ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「He 's the brother , actually , and my sister is right . You do look stunning .」
Cami:「You clean up pretty well yourself .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , do n't be fooled , love . I 'm the devil in disguise .」
Rebekah:「You two chit - chat . I need booze .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Shall we ?」
Cami:「Okay .」
narration:Klaus offers his arm and Cami takes it . Rebekah approaches the bar .
Rebekah:「Scotch , please .」
narration:Marcel approaches Rebekah at the bar , and she sighs .
Marcel:「You trying to be cute , inviting her here ?」
Rebekah:「I think she 's darling . I can tell you fancy her pure heart . Perhaps I 'll feed it to you .」

Marcel:「Hmm . Jealousy looks good on you , Bekah .」
narration:Across the courtyard , Cami and Klaus talk , watching Rebekah with Marcel .
Cami:「The guy of hers Rebekah was talking about ... I 'm sensing that would be Marcel .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I would n't worry about it . Ancient history .」
Cami:「I 'm beginning to think your sister is a bit of a bitch .」
narration:Klaus laughs .
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's as though she invented the term .」
narration:Cami gazes at Klaus ; he seems drawn in for a moment but catches himself , spotting Marcel getting ready to approach them .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Listen . Pardon me for a moment .」
narration:Klaus leaves ; Marcel greets Cami .
Marcel:「Cami .」
Cami:「Hey . Killer party . Marcel
 Oh , no . We 've been on one date . No explanation necessary . You do your thing , I 'll entertain myself .」
Marcel:「What , leave you alone , looking the way you do ? Hell with that .」

narration:MIKAELSON MANSION
 Hayley walks around the pool outside . She hears a twig snap nearby , then walks toward the sound to see a wolf staring at her . A voice behind her startles her and she whirls around .
Sabine:「You 're not supposed to be out here .」
Hayley:「Who are you ?」
Sabine:「Sorry . I did n't mean to scare you . I 'm Sabine . We met . I 'm one of Sophie 's friends .」
Hayley:「You 're one of the witches .」
Sabine:「Sophie just asked me to come keep you company while everyone 's out . You know , it 's drawn to you .」
narration:She nods at where the wolf was standing , and Hayley glances back .
Sabine:「The child you 're carrying is part vampire , part werewolf . You and Klaus made something special .」
Hayley:「You sound like Elijah . He thinks this baby is going to make us one big , happy family , but now he 's gone and I do n't even know what ... ' it ' is .」
Sabine:「You know , I can do something about that , if you want . I mean , found out if it 's a boy or girl .」
Hayley:「I thought you could n't do witchy stuff around here .」
Sabine:「It 's not magic , just an old trick my grandmother taught me . Come on . You have to be a little curious .」
narration:THE ABATTOIR - MASQUERADE GALA
 Cami and Marcel dance . Rebekah and Klaus watch them .
Cami:「I thought you said you were in community work .」
Marcel:「Community fundraising . Throw a party , folks open their wallets . It 's kind of my thing . Guess I 'm what you call a necessary evil .」
Cami:「And Rebekah , she 's one of your donors ?」
Marcel:「She 's an old friend .」
Cami:「Ca n't be that old . She looks younger than me .」
Marcel:「You 'd be surprised . I was a kid when I met her . Enough about her . I just want to be right here with you .」
narration:Across the courtyard , Klaus and Rebekah have their own conversation .
Klaus Mikaelson:「You really are a hideously evil little thing , are n't you ?」

Rebekah:「Nonsense . They 're perfect for each other . You wanted Marcel distracted - voilà .」
narration:Diego enters the courtyard , and sees Marcel dancing with Cami , their faces nearing each other . Diego interrupts them and whispers in Marcel 's ear .
Rebekah:「( to Klaus ) My cue to leave .」
narration:Marcel sees Thierry ; he looks like he 's barely containing his anger .
Marcel:「( to Cami ) Excuse me .」
narration:Marcel walks over to Thierry and grabs him by the throat , pushing him away from the main party . Cami watches , her eyebrows knitting together .
Marcel:「What the hell did you do ?」
narration:Diego intercedes .
Diego:「Whoa , not here . No , not here .」
narration:Marcel backs off ; Klaus smiles ; Cami watches , disquiet paralyzing her features .
 THE CEMETERY
 Katie and Sophie talk inside a candlelit burial chamber . Katie is crying .
Katie:「I know you think he 's a monster .」
Sophie:「It does n't matter what I think . Thierry killed another vampire . He broke Marcel 's biggest rule . You 'll never see him again ... unless we do something .」
Katie:「" We " ? Sophie」
narration:A little while later , Katie and Sophie sit out in the cemetery , arranging items for a ritual .
Sophie:「You ready ?」
narration:Katie begins by sprinkling sand over their tableau . Cut to Davina 's attic room , whispering voices growing louder . Davina thrashes , asleep in her bed but disturbed by the magic she can sense .
Davina:「Marcel . Something 's coming .」
narration:Davina rises from her bed and goes to her easel . She draws on the paper madly for several seconds , then stops .
Davina:「Magic .」
narration:THE ABATTOIR - MASQUERADE GALA
 Marcel talks to Thierry on a balcony above the party .
Marcel:「I want to hear your side of it .」
Thierry:「Hey , Marcel , come on-」
Marcel:「Your version . Go .」
Thierry:「We were tossing the Cauldron . This guy , some nightwalker , he attacked Katie for no reason .」
Marcel:「His name was Max . I turned him , and as far as reasons go , he does n't need one . She was a witch . He was a vampire . Now he 's dead .」
narration:From below , Cami watches them .
Thierry:「I did n't mean for it to happen .」
Marcel:「You broke my most important rule . Damn it , T. How long we been friends , 70 years ? I turned you into something that would never die . I gave you a gift .」
Thierry:「And I have been loyal to you all this time , and I still am . I 'm still your friend , Marcel . I swear , that has n't changed .」

narration:Cami 's look of apprehension remains . Klaus joins her .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Are you all right , love ?」
Cami:「He 's got a temper , does n't he ? I guess this is the moment I remember I know better .」
narration:Cami walks away . Joshua walks up to Klaus , standing slightly behind him . Klaus reaches into his coat 's inner pocket , withdraws a folded piece of paper and hands it to Joshua , who pockets it and walks away . Klaus watches the balcony as Joshua appears next to Marcel and hands him the paper .
Joshua:「We found this at his girl 's place .」
narration:Marcel looks at it ; it appears to be a spell written out . Marcel turns back to Thierry .
Marcel:「Still my friend , huh ? That 's funny because it looks to me like that little witch of yours got her hands on a spell that I keep locked away .」
Thierry:「Marcel , I have never seen that .」
Marcel:「Shut up . I see on your hand , you still have the daylight ring I gave you . So what would you need with the recipe for making new ones ? Unless maybe you and Katie were gon na go off and start a little kingdom of your own ?」
Thierry:「Marcel , no .」

Marcel:「Here 's a lesson in friendship . Friends do n't lie to me , they do n't break my rules , and they do not steal what is mine .」
narration:Marcel turns to take a moment and breathe , then returns to Thierry .
Marcel:「Ohh ... For the crime of murdering one of his own , I sentence Thierry Vanchure to 100 years in the Garden .」
narration:Below , Klaus smiles .
Klaus Mikaelson:「And it begins ...」
narration:Sophie is at the cemetery , preparing her locator spell , when Rebekah appears . Sophie looks up when she hears her .
Rebekah:「You 're doing the right thing . It 's the only way to find Elijah .」
Sophie:「I 'm doing what I have to do .」
narration:Sophie begins chanting .
 Klaus watches as more of Marcel 's men lead Thierry out of the party and out onto the street , where a small crowd of more vampires watch Katie approach from down the street , chanting . Klaus watches the events unfold from a window above . The sequence is intercut with shots of Davina madly scribbling at her easel .
Thierry:「Katie , no !」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Like clockwork .」

narration:Katie waves her arm and a lamp 's light explodes ; all the vampires grab at their heads , falling down in pain . Davina 's drawing appears to be Katie 's face . Marcel alone rises back up to face Katie , but she smashes another light with magic and Marcel goes down again . Sophie continues to chant for her spell .
Rebekah:「Hurry .」
narration:Marcel rises again , but Katie uses magic to break his bones , and he falls again shouting in pain .
Davina:「NO !」
narration:In her attic room , Davina lifts her hands slowly ; Marcel again rises , and Katie looks astonished .
Marcel:「You 're here to save your man . Well , come on , little girl !」
narration:He growls as he runs to attack Katie , but she halts him with magic , and he falls down groaning . Davina in her room falls at the same time . Katie lifts a wooden stake above Marcel .
Katie:「Die , you son of a bitch .」
Thierry:「No ! Katie ! Do n't !」
narration:Klaus swoops in and snaps Katie 's neck . She falls to the ground , dead . In the cemetery , Sophie stops her spell .
Sophie:「Something 's wrong . Katie 's magic stopped . I can keep going .」
Rebekah:「You ca n't . She 'll sense it .」
Sophie:「No . I can find Davina . I just need another moment .」
narration:Rebekah grabs the paper with black sand on top of it that Sophie was using and throws it aside .
Rebekah:「You may be willing to die to get your witch back , but Hayley and the baby will die with you . Elijah will never forgive us , and rescuing him will be for nothing . It 's over . We failed .」
narration:Back on the street , Thierry crawls over to Katie 's body .
Thierry:「No . Katie . No , no , no , no .」
narration:He sobs over her body , cradling it . Marcel catches Klaus ' eye , and nods .
 Thierry stands chained to a wall in some underground room . Marcel stands across from him .
Marcel:「Just tell me this . Was she worth it ?」
Thierry:「I loved her .」
narration:Marcel drives an iron stake into Thierry 's gut , and he groans in pain . Another man appears , and Marcel hands him a wooden mallet .
Marcel:「Seal him up ... and let him rot .」
narration:The man begins to lay bricks over wet cement , clearly intending to build a wall to encase Thierry . He wo n't be the first ; a long view down the tunnel suggests that many others have met the same fate .
 The party is over and the courtyard is deserted . Klaus and Marcel stand alone on a balcony and clink their drinks against each other . Marcel downs his .
Marcel:「How much did Cami see ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「She just saw an argument , mate . It 's nothing you ca n't fix . You really like her , do n't you ?」
Marcel:「I like that she 's not a part of any of this . Sometimes it 's good to see the world the way the humans do .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I am sorry about Thierry , you know ? I can tell he was a good friend .」
Marcel:「I made him what he was . Obviously , my trust was misplaced .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Does n't make it easier . Marcel」
narration:Cami drinks a pint at a bar , still wearing her gala finery . Klaus enters the place and sits next to her .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Cami-」
Cami:「Do n't even try it . I get the bro code . You 're here to smooth things over for your friend . It 's very nice of you , but-」
Klaus Mikaelson:「But you 've been hurt before , and you are n't taking any more chances .」
Cami:「Something like that . The guy I saw tonight - not the guy I thought he was . And if he can turn on a dime like that-」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Sounds like more than just a broken heart . Someone broke your trust . Camille , the brave bartender .」
narration:Cami and Klaus stare at each other . Cami swallows , looking like she might lean in , but Klaus blinks and breaks the moment .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm sorry ... But I need you to give Marcel another chance .」
narration:Cami clears her throat .
Cami:「Wow . I totally misread that .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「No . You read it quite well , but we all have our roles to play . ( compels ) You went to Marcel 's . You danced . You feel badly that he had a row with his friend , but otherwise , all you remember is that it was perfect .」
narration:Rebekah sits at the piano , playing a scattering of notes lazily . Klaus enters and she sits up .
Rebekah:「Well , tonight was an epic failure .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「On the contrary , sister . Tonight was a masterpiece .」
Rebekah:「Are you mad ? Katie died before Sophie could complete the spell .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , I 'm well aware . I killed Katie .」
Rebekah:「You what ?」

Klaus Mikaelson:「There 's no way our little suicide witch was n't gon na try and take out Marcel with her . I saved his life , and in doing so , I now have him exactly where I want him .」
Rebekah:「Sophie trusted you . I trusted you against all my better instincts .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Wake up , Rebekah . The witches are on no one 's side but their own . This girl , Davina ? That 's all they want , and when they have her , what do you think happens then , a truce ? Of course not . They will use Davina 's power against all of us .」
Rebekah:「Even if you 're right , the plan was to find Elijah , and you 've failed us .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You always did lack faith . By protecting Marcel , I 've cemented his trust , so much so that he 's agreed to return Elijah to us . And when the time is right , when he has told me everything I need to know about Davina , I will have her for myself .」
Rebekah:「I have all the faith in the world that you 'll get what you want , Nik . You always do , no matter what is costs the rest of us . You disgust me .」

narration:Rebekah takes a sip of bourbon , then sets it on the piano and leaves .
 Davina kneels at Elijah 's open casket . She hears a door open and looks up to see Marcel enter . She runs to hug him .
Davina:「You 're okay ! I was so worried .」
Marcel:「Thank you . Whatever you did , I felt it . You helped me .」
Davina:「It was the old ones , was n't it ?」
Marcel:「Actually , Klaus is the one that saved me tonight . I 'm gon na make things right , starting off by giving him his brother back .」
Davina:「No .」
Marcel:「What ? Davina- Davina」
narration:MIKAELSON MANSION
 Hayley sits typing on a laptop at a desk , on whose top lay open a few old texts . Klaus pauses at the doorway and walks in .
Klaus Mikaelson:「I thought you might like to know , Elijah is returning to us .」
Hayley:「Congratulations . I guess being diabolical has its perks .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You hardly know him , and yet you miss him . What is it about my brother that always inspires such instant admiration ?」

Klaus ( voiceover ):「My siblings and I are the first vampires in all of history , the Originals . 300 years ago , we helped build New Orleans . Now , we have returned to find the city has a new king , who rules with the aid of a powerful girl . They 've taken possession of my brother , Elijah . A coven of witches want this girl for themselves ; they seek to enlist my help , using my unborn child as leverage , though I suspect they have ulterior motives . So , I 've made a plan of my own」
narration:ST . ANN 'S CATHOLIC CHURCH ; DAVINA 'S ROOM ; MIKAELSON MANSION
[ A montage plays while Klaus speaks in voiceover:「Marcel walks through the pews of the church ; Davina kneels over Elijah 's body , removes the dagger , and stares at it . At the Mikaelson mansion , Klaus stares at a large painting in his mansion as he talks to Cami . ]」
Klaus ( voiceover ):「Over the course of my life , I 've encountered no shortage of those who would presume to speak of good and evil . Such terms mean nothing . People do what is in their best interest , regardless of who gets hurt . Is it evil to take what one wants ? To satisfy hunger , even if doing so will cause another suffering ? What some would call evil , I believe to be an appropriate response to a harsh and unfair world .」
Cami:「No offense , but I 'm not sure I follow why you 've invited me here .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Because I enjoy your company . And I sense that you have the capacity for understanding someone of my ... complexity . You see , I returned to New Orleans to investigate a threat posed against me . What I found was a young woman , pregnant , in need of protection . My brother , always the do - gooder , tried to manipulate me into helping her - he thought it might redeem me . Trouble is , I 've since learned of another young woman - a girl , really , one with vast potential - held in captivity by a tyrant . I want to help both of these women - protect one and free the other . So , tell me , Cami - does that sound evil to you ?」

Cami:「I do n't believe in evil as a diagnosis . I think you have unstable personal relationships , stress - related paranoia , chronic anger issues , fear of abandonment . I think you could benefit from talking to someone . Professionally .」
narration:[ Klaus smiles . ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「I think I prefer to talk to you . So , I 'm going to offer you a job , as my stenographer .」
Cami:「Okay , what are we writing ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「My memoirs , of course . Someone should know my story . And it will give us time to discuss other riveting subjects , like your handsome suitor , Marcel .」
Cami:「Excuse me ? My private life is-」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Your private life is , as it turns out , essential to my plans . You see , Marcel wants you . And , because of that , he will trust you , which serves me . The thing is , the French Quarter is on the verge of war . On the one side there 's me , and on the other , Marcel . Along with a very powerful witch and an army of vampires .」
Cami:「WHAT ?」
narration:[ Klaus zooms over , pushes her against a wall , and compels her ]

Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're frightened . Do n't be .」
Cami:「[ puzzled ] I 'm not scared anymore . That 's ... amazing . How did you ... ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It 's called compulsion . It 's a neat bit of vampire trickery . I 'll tell you all about it . But first , let 's talk a little more about Marcel .」
narration:[ Cami stares at him ]
 [ TITLE CARD AND OPENING CREDITS ]
 DAVINA 'S ATTIC ROOM - " Klaus saved my life . I owe him one . "
 [ Marcel leans over Elijah 's body in his coffin , while Davina looks out the window ]
Marcel:「This sucker 's resilient . He 's like a cockroach in a suit . [ beat ] Does n't matter . Time to give ol' Elijah back to Klaus , anyway .」
Davina:「You asked me to figure out a way to kill the Originals . I 'm not done ! The silver dagger hurts them , but that 's it .」
Marcel:「Davina , we 've been through this . Klaus saved my life , I owe him one . Since he wants his brother back-」
Davina:「Tonight 's the annual Dauphine Street Music Festival . I wanna go . Please ?」

Marcel:「The whole point of you being up here is so you 're never spotted out there . You know who works smack in the middle of Dauphine Street ? Sophie Deveraux . Pain - in - the - ass witch , and you know what the witches will do to you if they find you .」
Davina:「But you control the witches . Make her go away !」
narration:[ Marcel shakes his head ]
Davina:「Marcel , it 's one night !」
Marcel:「I said ' No ' .」
narration:[ Marcel turns and walks toward the door to leave ]
Davina:「I do anything you say , but sometimes I think you forget what I 'm capable of . Did you know I can make someone 's blood boil ? All I have to do is focus .」
narration:[ She stares at Marcel , and we can hear the hiss of boiling blood as he starts to sweat ]
Marcel:「[ smiles ] Fine . We compromise , all right ? You going out alone - too dangerous . But , I 'll introduce you to a friend of mine that 's going to be there . Alright ? Nice lady . You two are really gon na hit it off .」
narration:[ Davina smiles widely and bounces on her heels ]
 ROUSSEAU 'S - " That 's how compulsion works , love . "
 [ Klaus enters as Cami wipes down the bar at work ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Hello , Cami .」

Cami:「How is it that when you come up to me now , and no one else is around , I suddenly remember that you just told me you 're a vampire , and you 're mind - controlling me ? And then you leave , and then I go back to thinking you 're just some hot guy with a cute accent and money to burn on your sprawling memoir ?」
narration:[ Amused , Klaus leans in and answers in a low voice . ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , that 's how compulsion works , love .」
Cami:「Yeah , but what 's happening ? Is it hypnosis ? Are my neurons being shut down somehow ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're always the curious scholar . Let 's talk about Marcel . [ gestures to the bar ] You said you have a little information for me .」
Cami:「He 's bringing someone to the music festival tonight . A girl he 's mentoring . Apparently she 's going through a hard time . Rebelling against authority , anger issues , that sort of thing . I guess with my psych degree , he figured I could set her straight , but I said no .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'm going to go ahead and insist that you change your answer to ' yes ' .」
narration:[ She stares at Klaus for a moment ]

Cami:「You 're going to force me to do this , are n't you ? Why even bother with politeness ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Because I like you . I like the way your mind works . Under different circumstances , I think we might be friends . However , I do n't have the luxury of passing up tonight 's opportunity . You see , in addition to being Marcel 's rather potent secret weapon , this girl , Davina , is holding my brother captive . In other words-[Klaus compels Cami]-the girl needs your help . Call Marcel . Tell him you 'd be happy to oblige .」
narration:MIKAELSON MANSION - " How does one begin , anyway ?
 [ Hayley sits on the couch , flipping through a book as she talks to Agnes ; at the table , Rebekah sits and types on a laptop ]
Hayley:「I told you Agnes , I feel great !」
Agnes:「You are overdue for a checkup .」
Hayley:「What am I gon na do ? Pop into the Quarter for a quick ultrasound ? A pregnant werewolf escorted by a witch - nothing to see here !」
Rebekah:「A lot of women would kill to have a child . It strikes me as odd that you 're not taking better care of yours .」

Agnes:「I know a doctor out in the bayou . Off the beaten path . Now , I took the liberty of making an appointment for you . Tonight , after - hours , just us . Vampires will never get word of it .」
narration:[ Hayley thinks for a moment and rolls her eyes ]
Hayley:「Okay , fine . Bayou - baby - doctor it is .」
narration:[ Agnes and Hayley leave the room .
Cut to Rebekah:「she is looking at satellite photos of the French Quarter . Klaus walks in ]」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Please , sister , tell me you 're not still at it with the internet search . How does one begin , anyway ? Just type in " anonymous attic ? "」
narration:[ Klaus pours himself a scotch ]
Rebekah:「Someone has to find Elijah , even if I have to search every bloody attic in New Orleans .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Like looking for a needle in a rather large pile of needles .」
Rebekah:「I remember details about the attic Marcel took me to . There were shutters on the windows behind Elijah 's coffin .」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , that should narrow it down immensely . Myself , I prefer actual strategy as opposed to mind - numbing labor . Marcel 's delay in returning our brother makes me suspect he 's no longer in charge of the situation . If Davina 's loyalty to Marcel is strained , perhaps the young witch will be open to discussing a new alliance .」
Rebekah:「[ smiles bitterly ] As usual , your power grabs are more important than rescuing your brother .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I prefer to think of it as killing two birds with one stone . Rob Marcel of his secret weapon , bring our brother home .」
narration:[ Rebekah merely looks at her brother , smiles tightly . ]
 NIGHTWALKER BAR - " We got ourselves one high - class Original Vampire . "
 [ A crowd of nightwalkers hang out in small groups in a dark bar . Josh approaches Diego , who is feeding on a young woman ]
Josh:「Hey , Diego !」
narration:[ Diego scowls and stops feeding on the girl . As he wipes the blood from his mouth , he drops the unconscious girl onto the floor before reluctantly turning toward Josh ]
Diego:「What ?」
Josh:「Uhhh , do you know any way to fast track the whole ... getting a daylight ring thing ?」

Diego:「You get a daylight ring when you get invited into the inner circle . For you , that may never happen .」
Josh:「Yeah , but there 's an opening , right ? Now that Thierry 's like ... you know-」
Diego:「You shut up about Thierry , alright ? He did n't deserve what he got . Marcel was just showing off because for Klaus . Ca n't wait ' til his ancient - ass is outta here .」
narration:[ Rebekah enters the bar . ]
Rebekah:「You and me both .」
narration:[ Diego stands up , claps his hands , and walks toward Rebekah ]
Diego:「Look alive , boys . We got ourselves one high - class Original vampire .」
Rebekah:「Mmm , a real charmer . What if I told you I could help you out with your little Klaus problem , in exchange for the tiniest bit of gossip ?」
narration:[ Diego 's face turns serious as he considers the offer ]
Diego:「Like what ?」
Rebekah:「You might have heard the rumors that Marcel and I were quite the item , back in the day . He seems to have moved on , and I 'd like to know with who .」
narration:[ Diego scoffs and turns back to the bar ]
Diego:「You 've seen him with the bartender .」
Rebekah:「What , that plain - Jane that he carries on with ? Only a blind man would choose her over me . There must be another girl in his harem .」
narration:[ Diego shrugs and shakes his head ]
Rebekah:「Look , I just need the tiniest bit of closure . And then I can leave New Orleans and I 'll be sure to take Klaus with me , which , let 's face it , would make your life a whole lot easier ?」
Diego:「[ sighs ] Look , Marcel 's got a full plate . If he 's seeing some other hottie , she 's somewhere in the Quarter , probably close by .」
narration:[ Rebekah smiles ]
Diego:「And that , milady , is all I got .」
narration:DAUPHINE STREET MUSIC FESTIVAL - " So , we should probably go over the rules . "
 [ Marcel walks along Dauphine Street as he gives instructions to a group of his vampires ]
Marcel:「Big event tonight , a lot of people drinking , a lot of eyes watching . I do n't want any trouble , which means no witches . Send word through the Cauldron - any witches come here , we kill them . And , while you 're at it , no Originals , I do n't like how Rebekah 's been snooping around . I got my girl Cami coming , her and a little friend of hers , I want eyes on them at all times ; eyes only . Alright ? I do n't want anyone getting anywhere near either of them . Everybody 's got a post , everybody keeps an eye out . You cool ?」

narration:[ The vampires look at Marcel in agreement for a moment before walking away ]
 [ It 's night time now . Davina smiles broadly as she walks down Dauphine Street in a white sundress , looking at all the people and listening to the music . Marcel and Davina walk into Rousseau 's , which is teeming with people drinking and listening to a brass band play up front ]
Marcel:「So , is it everything you hoped for ?」
narration:[ Davina shakes her head enthusiastically and giggles ]
Davina:「Yeah !」
narration:[ Davina spots a young boy yelling for a friend near the bar , whooping for the band members ]
Marcel:「So , we should probably go over the rules .」
Davina:「[ sighs ] I wo n't talk to anyone about anything . I wo n't say anything about witches , or vampires , or Originals , or YOU .」
narration:[ Marcel nods at Davina and smiles ]
Davina:「[ smiles , embarrassed ] You said you were n't going to hover !」
narration:[ Marcel looks at her incredulously , and Davina laughs ]
 THE BAYOU CLINIC - " THIS is the doctor 's office ? "
 [ It 's dark , and Agnes drives Hayley up to the obstetrician in the Bayou in her car . Owls hoot in the background ]
Hayley:「This is the doctor 's office ?」
Agnes:「[ smiles ] Dr. Paige is only this far out because Marcel 's men kept terrorizing her patients . Go ! She wo n't bite !」
narration:[ Hayley nervously exits the car and walks toward the clinic . Once she 's out of earshot , Agnes calls someone on her cell phone ]
Agnes:「[ frowns ] Send them in now and tell them to do it quickly .」
narration:ROUSSEAU 'S - DAUPHINE STREET FESTIVAL - " Sooo , what 's his name ? Hot guy with the fiddle ? "
 [ The young boy Davina was watching earlier is on stage with another band , playing a fiddle . Davina continues to watch him intently . Over at the bar , Marcel keeps an eye on Davina as he chats with Cami ]
Marcel:「It 's good to see you . I was worried you thought I was some hothead after that display at the masquerade .」
Cami:「We all have our hot - headed moments ! [ shrugs ] Anyway , I 'm almost done here until clean - up , so the two of us girls can hang out if you need to go shmooze , or whatever .」
narration:[ Davina leans over to butt into their conversation ]
Davina:「You know , he was supposed to stop hovering like , ten minutes ago .」
Marcel:「[ to Cami ] See what I mean ? Authority issues ! I 'll go talk to the mayor - he actually knows how to show some respect !」
narration:[ Cami watches Davina stare at the boy , and smiles as she approaches her ]

Cami:「Soooo , what 's his name ? Hot guy with the fiddle ? Davina」
narration:[ Cami smiles encouragingly ]
Davina:「I knew he would be here , he always performs at these kinda things .」
Cami:「How long have you two known each other ?」
Davina:「Since we were ten . [ beat [ I had to leave school , and I did n't get to say goodbye . So , I was just hoping to talk to him tonight .」
narration:[ The band finishes their song , and all the patrons of the bar whoop and applaud them . Davina continues to smile and watch Tim play ]
 ST . ANN 'S CATHOLIC CHURCH - " What 's your name ? " - " Father Kieran . And you are ? " - " Mildly curious . "
 [ A priest is cleaning up a very run - down looking church when Rebekah enters ]
Priest:「[ briefly looks at Rebekah before going back to what he was doing ] Church is closed . If you want your horror fix , go take a ghost tour .」
Rebekah:「I do n't much care for ghosts . I am , however , fascinated by window shutters . I 've been on a town tour of them all day . I noticed the windows of your attic have shutters .」
Priest:「Are you really interested in shutters ?」
Rebekah:「I can assure you it 's my current life obsession . [ beat ] What 's your name ?」
Priest:「Father Kieran . And you are ?」
Rebekah:「Mildly curious .」
narration:[ Father Kieran sighs deeply as Rebekah notices a red stain on the nearby wall ]
Rebekah:「What happened here ?」
Father Kieran:「[ sighs again ] St. Ann 's used to be the heart of the neighborhood . It 's been abandoned for a while now . Since the night of the massacre .」
narration:[ Flashback to a young , blonde seminary student in the church , who murders several other seminary students by beheading them with a scythe , before ultimately killing himself the same way , despite Father Kieran 's pleas ]
Father Kieran:「Nine seminary students were killed ... by one of their own . [ beat ] You 're standing on blood .」
Rebekah:「I 'm not squeamish . Where 's the attic ?」
Father Kieran:「Like I said , the church is closed .」
narration:[ Rebekah moves herself right in front of his face and compels him ]
Rebekah:「Where is the attic ?」
Father Kieran:「Past the sacristy , up the stairs .」
Rebekah:「[ smiles ] Thank you . Now , forget I was here .」
narration:[ Rebekah walks away . After a moment , Father Kieran shakes his head , as if shaking himself out of a daze ]
 [ Upstairs , Rebekah finds the attic and opens the door ]
Rebekah:「I knew it !」

narration:[ She tries to enter the room , but she ca n't , because Davina has somehow magically revoked her invitation . In the doorway , she looks over at her brother laying in his open coffin . His eyes open and look toward her , and he uses his mental abilities to speak with Rebekah in her head , using a memory of them going to an opera in New Orleans in the 1880s as a backdrop . They are both dressed in 19th century finery and standing in front of a horse and carriage ]
Rebekah:「What the bloody hell ?」
narration:[ Elijah approaches her from behind , smiling rogueishly ]
Elijah:「Rebekah , language , please !」
Rebekah:「Elijah !」
narration:[ Rebekah runs toward him and hugs him tightly before looking around them ]
Rebekah:「What is all this ?」
Elijah:「You do n't remember ? We went to the opera house together . It was your first full day back into New Orleans ' society after Klaus removed the dagger from you . It 's a memory that only you and I share . Also , I needed to know it was n't another one of Davina 's tricks .」
Rebekah:「Well , how are you even awake ?」
Elijah:「[ smiles ] Davina removed the dagger , unaware that doing so even once would negate the dagger 's power . In a few hours , I shall be as good as new !」
Rebekah:「So , pop me into the attic and we can find a way to get you out !」
Elijah:「I 'm afraid I 'm not quite ready to leave yet , Rebekah . [ beat ] This girl , Davina , she 's ... curious . Willful , too . [ pours himself and Rebekah a drink ] Soon , I shall be able to speak to her , perhaps to even propose a truce of some kind . So , if we can end this war between the vampires and the witches , we 'll be able to eliminate the threat to Hayley , and her baby . Perhaps then Niklaus and our entire family can finally know peace . [ hands Rebekah her drink ] In the meantime , I need you to look after Hayley . She is our family now , so I need her and her unborn child to fall underneath our protection . [ holds out his drink to toast to her ] Swear to me , Rebekah .」
narration:[ He returns her back to reality , where she still stands in the doorway , looking at him in his coffin ]
Rebekah:「I swear .」
narration:[ Rebekah turns to leave ]
 BAYOU CLINIC - " A unique birthmark . "
 [ Dr. Paige is giving Hayley an ultrasound , and we can hear the fetal heartbeat ]
Dr. Paige:「Your baby 's heart rate is perfect . [ smiles ]」
Hayley:「[ smiles in return ] I knew it . She 's a tough one , like her mom .」

narration:[ Dr. Paige chuckles and hands her a tissue to wipe the ultrasound gel off of her abdomen , which she does . As Hayley sits up , Dr. Paige notices Hayley 's crescent - moon shaped birthmark on her shoulder ]
Dr. Paige:「That 's a unique birthmark .」
Hayley:「[ puts on sweater ] We 're pretty much done here , right ?」
narration:[ Hayley gets a text from Rebekah , which reads " Where are you ? " ]
Dr. Paige:「Your blood pressure is a bit high , I 've got something for it .」
narration:[ Hayley watches as she walks away , to where Agnes is waiting in the next room . She texts " Bayou clinic with doctor " to Rebekah . Suddenly , a wolf howls loudly , startling Hayley . She gets up to look out the window and sees a car 's headlights approaching , which makes her suspicious and anxious . Dr. Paige returns with her medication ]
Hayley:「Ahh , you know , I 'm - I 'm actually not that good with pills .」
Dr. Paige:「[ nervous ] Heh , neither am I , truth be told .」
narration:[ Dr. Paige sets the medicine cup on the table and starts preparing something . A group of intimidating - looking men walk into the clinic and whisper something unintelligible to Agnes . Hayley turns around to see Dr. Paige preparing a syringe , and the doctor lunges at Hayley to inject her with it . Hayley grabs her arm and pushes it away from her , headbutts the doctor to disorient her , and then stabs the syringe into the doctor 's neck . When the men in the lobby see what happened , they run toward the door , but Hayley manages to shut and lock it before they can enter . One of the men rattles the doorknob as Hayley struggles to open the window to escape . When they finally get in , Hayley has already escaped and began running away ]
 OUTSIDE ROUSSEAU 'S - DAUPHINE STREET MUSIC FESTIVAL
 [ Outside , Tim struggles to unlock his car , as his hands are full with his fiddle case . ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「[ behind him ] Hello , Tim .」

narration:[ Tim just stares at him blankly ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「I believe you and I share an acquaintance . [ grips him tightly by the shoulder and compels him ] Be a good lad and help me send her a message .」
narration:[ Cami and Davina are still inside Rousseau 's , looking for Tim ]
Cami:「Well , he could n't have gone far , he just got off - stage a minute ago !」
narration:[ Davina sighs and blinks tears from her eyes ]
Davina:「It does n't matter , this was a stupid idea anyway .」
Cami:「No , it was n't ! Davina-」
Davina:「Just forget it . [ runs off ]」
narration:[ Klaus approaches Cami from behind and hands her a note ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Tell her this is from one of the musicians . She 'll want to leave , and you 're going to want to help her slip out the back exit so Marcel does n't see . [ beat ] Whatever you do , do n't let her out of your sight .」
narration:[ Cami looks slightly annoyed , but when she turns around to talk to Klaus , he has already zoomed away ]
Cami:「Wait , Davina !」

narration:[ Cami runs to catch up with her ]
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 ST . ANN 'S CATHOLIC CHURCH - " The boy has a gift . You ca n't compel a person to play like that . "
 [ Tim is standing in the aisle , staring at the statues and lit candles at the altar in the front of the room , when Cami and Davina find him there . Cami smiles at Davina encouragingly . ]
Davina:「[ whispers ] I ca n't do this .」
narration:[ Cami , still smiling , gently pushes Davina toward Tim and watches as she approaches him . Tim turns around when he hears her , and his face brightens ]
Davina:「[ waves awkwardly ] Hey , Tim . I got your note .」
Tim:「I got your text message .」
Davina:「Thanks for meeting me here . [ sighs and smiles ]」
Tim:「[ laughs ] Uh , it 's so amazing to see you - I ca n't even believe I 'm standing here right now . I just ... [ sighs ] Wow .」
narration:[ Davina giggles nervously ]
Tim:「SO , how have you been ? [ laughs ] And why did you want to meet here ? It 's so creepy ... all the terrible stuff that happened ?」
narration:[ Davina walks toward altar ]
Davina:「I dunno , I kind of like it ! It 's quiet . The place ca n't be bad for all time , just because one bad thing happened ... right ?」
Tim:「Wait , no , uh , alright , back up . So where ... ? [ beat ] One day you just stopped coming to school , and then it 's like you just ... vanished .」
Davina:「There was an emergency ... and I needed to take care of some things .」
Tim:「Oh , are you okay ? I mean , you look okay - you look great , actually .」
narration:[ Davina giggles ]
Tim:「So , are you coming back to school ?」
narration:[ Davina 's smile falls , and then so does Tim 's ]
Davina:「[ beat ] No . But I need you to know that even though I was away , I miss you . [ smiles ] I miss seeing you at school , seeing you play your violin .」
narration:[ Tim gulps nervously and gestures to the walls of the room ]
Tim:「Well , this place does have great acoustics .」
narration:[ Davina looks confused for a moment , until she sees him pick up his violin and bow . She sits down to watch and listen to him play ]
 [ Cami is staring at the bloodstains on the walls in the back of the church , listening to Tim play for Davina , when Klaus joins her ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「The boy has a gift . You ca n't compel a person to play like that .」

Cami:「I know what you are . It 's crazy to me , but at least it makes sense . But this ... massacre ... was just a pointless , brutal thing . In your life , have you ever heard of anything like that ? A good man , an aspiring priest , just goes on a killing spree out of nowhere .」
narration:[ Klaus sits next to Cami ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 've seen quite a lot in my time . The world is a rather awful place . Best to meet it on its own terms .」
Cami:「[ shakes her head ] No . The world is n't awful . People are n't awful . They want to be good ; something makes them bad . Something breaks them down , makes them snap . There are always signs , symptoms , before someone has a psychotic break . The guy who did this had none of them ; he did n't drink , he did n't do drugs ...」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're well - informed on the matter . [ beat ] You knew him , did n't you ?」
Cami:「[ blinks back tears ] His name was Sean . He was my brother . My twin , actually . I ca n't sleep , I ... dream , about what happened , and I hate it , and I hate that I could n't help him .」

Klaus Mikaelson:「We all must stand alone against our demons .」
Cami:「What if someday , his demons become mine too ?」
narration:[ She looks at him expectantly , and he notices that Tim has finished playing ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「I have some business I should attend to ... but before I do-」
narration:[ Klaus places a hand on her shoulder and looks in her eyes to compel her ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「You should go , enjoy the music . Put this out of your mind .」
narration:[ Klaus lets go of her , and she leaves the church to return to the festival ]
 DAUPHINE STREET FESTIVAL - " To be continued . "
 [ Father Kieran walks down Dauphine Street when he sees Marcel walking around the festival ]
Father Kieran:「Marcel !」
Marcel:「Father Kieran - welcome back . I was n't sure when you 'd be coming home .」
Father Kieran:「I can tell , judging by what 's been going on in my church attic .」
Marcel:「[ smiles coldly ] I did n't think you 'd mind . Lord knows I 've done you a favor or two .」

Father Kieran:「[ lowers voice ] I take it you know the Originals have returned ? The sister , Rebekah ? I saw her earlier , snooping around the church , asking about the attic . She does n't know I take vervain . You got ta problem on your hands .」
Marcel:「No disrespect , for the grieving process , for you and your church , but just so I know - are you here to help , or are you just going to drop in with criticism ?」
narration:[ Father Kieran laughs coldly , and leans in to whisper to Marcel ]
Father Kieran:「Never forget , Marcel , that you live in this city by the grace of those who know your secret and tolerate you .」
Marcel:「And this city thrives because of me and my people . Anytime that you need a reminder of that , just let me know .」
narration:[ Marcel stares at Father Kieran menacingly , but their argument is interrupted by Josh ]
Josh:「Marcel ? Diego said he lost eyes on the girls .」
Marcel:「[ turns to Father Kieran ] To be continued !」
narration:ST . ANN 'S CATHOLIC CHURCH - " Do n't dare hurt him ! "
Klaus Mikaelson:「You two are absolutely adorable ! Warms my heart , it really does , but I do need a word with the young lady . So , Tim , [ grips his shoulder and compels him ] Go sit down , count to one - hundred - thousand .」

narration:[ Tim walks to the back of the church ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Quietly , now , there 's a good boy . [ turns to Davina ] I assume you know who I am . [ beat ] Then , let 's get right to it , shall we ? Your current dilemma strikes me as a case of poor alliances . You 're loyal to Marcel and yet he keeps you tucked away in an attic . Surely you prefer just a little bit more freedom . And yet Marcel keeps you prisoner .」
Davina:「Marcel does n't keeps me prisoner , he keeps me safe . He 's my friend .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , I 've no doubt he is . [ crouches to her level ] For a girl caught in a war between witches and vampires , I might be a better friend . I would keep you safe . And I 'd allow you your freedom . [ paces up and down the aisle ] If Marcel could do that , why has n't he done so already ? And it does beg the question」
narration:[ Klaus gestures to Tim , who is sitting in the last pew ]
Davina:「If anyone tries to hurt anyone I care about , I 'll kill them .」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , then . Sounds like you do n't need Marcel at all . Perhaps you 've suspected it all along . Your dear friend Marcel tricks you into doing his bidding . And all the while you rot in an attic , alone , while young Timothy moves on with his life .」
narration:[ Davina stares intently at Klaus , angry . ]
Davina:「You feel that ? That 's your blood starting to boil .」
narration:[ Klaus groans as we hear the hiss of his blood boiling . Sweat starts to drip from his forehead , so he composes himself and vamp - runs to Tim and puts him in a headlock ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Such a shame to lose him , just as you found him again . [ to Tim ] And I really did admire your skill with that violin .」
Davina:「Do n't you dare hurt him ! Klaus
 Let him go now ! Klaus」
narration:[ Davina thrusts her open hand out and twists it , using her magic to break the bones in his leg . Unfortunately , it takes only a moment for Klaus to reset his bones and heal ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Impressive . But you do n't want to fight me , love . Innocent people have a way of ending up dead .」
Tim:「[ whispers ] Please , let me go .」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Your choice , little witch . Swear allegiance to me alone and the boy lives . Stand against me-」

narration:[ The candles behind Davina flare as Davina gets angrier . After a moment , she thrusts both hands in front of her and shrieks . Her magic causes paper and books to be blown around by wind , and all the windows in the church shatter . The glass shards fly backwards , and Klaus and Tim are forcibly blown backwards toward the entrance . Even Davina is knocked backwards by the power of her magic and thrown onto the ground . ]
 WOODED AREA IN THE BAYOU - " If I had a dollar for every mess my family has got me into . "
 [ The men who raided the clinic are still looking for Hayley , and they pass her , not seeing that she 's hiding behind a tree . She runs up to them and kicks the first man she encounters in the gut and knocks him to the ground . SHe jumps and kicks the second man down as well , and snaps his neck . A third man tries to attack her , but she grabs a knife from his hands and cuts his neck with it as she spins in the air . When a fourth attacks her , she grabs his shotgun , and knocks him to the ground , and possibly kills him as she kicks him and beats him in the head with the butt of the shotgun . Hayley crouches on the ground , and her eyes flash werewolf - gold as she looks for any more threats . A large , burly man descends upon her , but before Hayley can react , his neck is snapped from behind by Rebekah , who has just arrived ]
Rebekah:「Have to say , I 'm impressed .」
Hayley:「How did you find me ?」
Rebekah:「Your text got me halfway , vamping here did the rest . Who are they ?」
Hayley:「Witches , warlocks , whatever .」
narration:[ Rebekah notices more men with flashlights in the distance ]
Rebekah:「There 're more of them . Run !」
narration:[ Hayley reluctantly heeds her warning ]
Rebekah:「[ muttering to herself ] If I had a dollar for every mess my family has got me into ...」
narration:[ Rebekah is shot in the heart with two arrows , which temporarily neutralize her and she falls to the ground . Hayley sees her ]
Hayley:「Rebekah !」
narration:[ Hayley is shot in the shoulder with an arrow , which seems to be coated in something that causes her to pass out and fall to the ground as well ]
 DAUPHINE STREET MUSIC FESTIVAL
 [ Cami walks down the street , observing the people partying around her , when Marcel approaches her ]
Marcel:「[ frantic ] Where is she ? Where 's Davina ?」
Cami:「She went to meet a boy , in St. Ann 's church ...」
Marcel:「[ sighs , rolls his eyes ] Stay here in case she comes back .」

narration:[ Cami watches Marcel , concerned , as he walks away quickly ]
 WOODED AREA IN THE BAYOU
 [ Rebekah awakens from passing out after being shot in the heart with an arrow . She pulls out the arrows with a groan , and sits up to find five or more bodies , all dead and bloodied . ]
Rebekah:「[ looks around ] What the hell ? [ starts to gasp for breath as she pulls herself to her feet ] Hayley ? HAYLEY ?」
narration:ST . ANN 'S CATHOLIC CHURCH
 [ Davina awakens on the floor after passing out from attacking Klaus with her magic . She stands up ]
Davina:「Tim !」
narration:[ She runs toward the back of the room , where Klaus and Tim where blown backward , and runs out the door . Above her , in the balcony , Klaus stands as he talks on his cell phone with Rebekah ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「[ angry ] What do you mean , ' She 's missing ? '」
Rebekah:「What do you think I mean ? There 's blood and bodies everywhere , someone 's ripped this lot to shreds , and there 's no smart - aleck pregnant girl .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Keep looking . I 'm on my way .」

narration:[ Klaus hangs up and pulls Tim up onto his feet ]
Tim:「Please , do n't hurt me .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「It was n't my intent to . But , sadly , we 've run out of time to play nice .」
narration:[ Klaus grabs Tim and throws him off the balcony onto the floor below . He spots Tim 's violin on the floor , and smiles as he throws it over as well before walking away ]
 [ Some time later , Tim lies on the floor , surrounded by broken glass . He is severely injured , and his breathing is shallow . Davina returns and finds him lying on the floor ]
Davina:「Tim ! [ kneels down beside him ] Oh no , no , please ! [ she lifts his head onto her lap ] I 'm sorry , I 'm so sorry . I did n't mean to hurt you !」
narration:[ Tim gasps in pain and looks at her as she runs her fingers through his hair . Klaus enters and walks toward them ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「One of the tragic consequences of war . Innocent bystanders . What terrible guilt you 'll have to live with , young Timothy 's blood on your hands .」
Davina:「[ angry and near tears ] Get away from him !」
narration:[ Klaus raises his hands defensively ]

Klaus Mikaelson:「No , no , let 's not be hasty . After all , I can heal him .」
narration:[ Davina looks at him in confusion ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「All you have to do is ask .」
narration:[ Klaus crouches down to her level . Davina looks down at Tim , and after a moment , nods her head ]
Davina:「Please !」
Klaus Mikaelson:「For you , Davina , with pleasure .」
narration:[ Klaus bites his wrist and feeds his blood to Tim . After a moment , Tim pulls away and sighs in relief . Klaus tilts his head toward him and compels him ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「You will forget everything that happened after the concert , including the fact that you saw Davina .」
Davina:「[ looks at Klaus in shock ] What ? No ! Klaus」
narration:[ Klaus stands up and pulls Tim to his feet again , then compels him . ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Okay , come on , up you come . [ compels ] Take your violin case with you . You 'll remember losing the instrument backstage after the performance . You really should be more careful .」
narration:[ Klaus claps him on the neck , and Tim picks up his violin case and leaves with it ]

Klaus Mikaelson:「All fixed ! And now , you owe me a favor .」
narration:[ Davina frowns and cries silently as she picks up Tim 's smashed violin off the floor . When she looks up again , Klaus has vanished . She walks into the aisle and turns around when she hears Marcel approaching her ]
Marcel:「Davina ! [ looks around ] What happened ? What are you doing here ?」
Davina:「[ angrily ] I live here , remember ?」
narration:[ She turns away and walks back to her room . Marcel looks at her , confused , and sighs as she walks away ]
 BAYOU CLINIC
 [ Rebekah is walking around , looking for clues as to where Hayley could be . She sees the doctor passed out on the floor next to the used syringe . Suddenly , Klaus appears ]
Rebekah:「Wow ! You abandoned your quest for power to help out your family ! Having an off day ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「[ calmly ] Who took her , Rebekah ?」
Rebekah:「I do n't know .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What do you mean , you do n't know ? And who killed her attackers ?」

Rebekah:「I do n't know ! I had an arrow in my heart . If it was n't Hayley who killed them , then-」
narration:[ She is cut off by wolves howling in the distance . Klaus looks at her and raises his eyebrows ]
Rebekah:「Lovely . Maybe her cousins will know where she is .」
narration:[ Klaus follows her outside , speechless . When they exit the building , they see Hayley stumbling toward them , her clothes tattered and dirty . She looks dazed and exhausted . The two run toward her ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Hayley ! What happened ? Tell me what happened .」
Hayley:「I ca n't remember .」
narration:[ Klaus examines Hayley for wounds ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 've completely healed . There 's not a scratch on you .」
Hayley:「One of the perks of being a werewolf , remember ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「No , not that fast .」
narration:[ Rebekah runs over to Hayley and wraps an arm around her protectively ]
Rebekah:「Leave her alone ! [ thinks for a moment ] It 's the baby . The vampire blood , Klaus ' vampire blood , in your system , it can heal any wound .」
narration:[ Klaus turns and stares at her incredulously ]

Rebekah:「Your own child healed you .」
narration:[ Klaus smiles at the thought ]
Rebekah:「How did you escape ? Outnumbered , unarmed ? Those men were ripped to shreds !」
Hayley:「[ quietly ] I think it was the wolf . I think it 's trying to protect me .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「[ angrily points to Hayley ] The witches were supposed to protect you ! When I get my hands on Sophie Deveraux-」
Rebekah:「It was n't Sophie-」
Hayley:「It was Agnes .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Fine ! Agnes , Sophie , it 's all the same to me ! I 'll slaughter the lot of them !」
Rebekah:「Not if Elijah gets there first .」
Hayley:「Elijah ? Did you find him ?」
Rebekah:「He 's been in touch , and he has a plan . All he asks is that we take care of you .」
Hayley:「[ smiles ] Hey , so ... can we go home now ? I 'd really like to sleep for a few days .」

narration:[ Hayley stands up , and Klaus nods with a smile . When she goes to walk , she stumbles and starts to fall , but Klaus zooms over to catch her and picks her up ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Ooh , I 've got you , love . I 've got you .」
narration:[ Rebekah and Klaus walk toward their car , Hayley still in Klaus ' arms ]
 NIGHTWALKER BAR
 [ Marcel angrily talks with his nightwalkers , including Josh and Diego ]
Marcel:「I was crystal clear ! Eyes on my girls at all times .」
Diego:「[ scoffs ] What , your girl 's little friend sneaks away from YOUR party , and that 's our fault ?」
narration:[ Marcel scowls at him ]
Diego:「What , Marcel , are you going to send me to the Garden , too ?」
narration:[ Marcel snaps his neck , and turns around to address his other nightwalkers , who stand and stare at him before dispersing awkwardly ]
Marcel:「[ to Josh ] When he wakes up , tell him an apology would have gotten him a lot further than his attitude . [ smiles ]」
narration:[ Josh nods and walks away . After he does , Rebekah walks into the bar and slams the door . Marcel approaches her ]

Rebekah:「Awful , what happened to the church . I hear they 're calling it a gas leak . Such a pity .」
Marcel:「I heard that you were quite a woman on a mission today .」
Rebekah:「What can I say ? I want Elijah back .」
Marcel:「Is that ALL you want ? [ gets into her face ] You 'll get Elijah back . In the meantime , stay out of this bar , and stay away from my guys .」
Rebekah:「What 's wrong ? You jealous ?」
Marcel:「Me ? I 've already found my queen .」
Rebekah:「Cami ? The bartender ? Stop fooling yourself , Marcel . She 's comfort food , something to distract you from what you really want , which , after all these years , is impossible to deny , because I 'm [ whispers ] standing right in front of you .」
narration:[ She looks at him , and stares at his lips , as if she 's about to kiss him , but instead , Marcel walks away , leaving Rebekah standing alone ]
 CAMI 'S APARTMENT
 [ Cami is in her pajamas , and looks in her bedroom mirror as she takes off her necklace . She sees Klaus standing in the doorway in the reflection , and turns to talk to him ]
Cami:「Klaus ! What are you doing here ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 've had quite a night . [ beat ] I recall you mentioned something about nightmares and insomnia . I believe I can help . Can I come in ?」

Cami:「This is super weird . Come in .」
narration:[ Klaus walks in ]
Cami:「Wait , that 's right , I told you what happened . I never tell anybody , but I told you . [ tears start to fill her eyes ] And you said something about Sean standing alone against his demons . When he killed those men , I thought he must be mentally ill , but [ gasps in realization ] what if it was demons ? What if a vampire compelled him ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And if so , would you devote yourself to finding the guilty party ? [ tear falls down his cheek ] Would you sacrifice everything to find out the truth ? [ walks toward her ] To what end ?」
Cami:「[ backs up ] To what end ? This is the entire reason why I 'm in New Orleans !」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Cami , whatever lies on the other end of this mystery will only offer you pain ! Nothing will bring your brother back ! [ walks toward her ] Your only hope for peace ... is to forget this ...」
narration:[ Cami realizes what he 's about to do ]
Cami:「No .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「... and move on .」
Cami:「No ! Do n't compel me to forget this !」

Klaus Mikaelson:「And if I allow you to remember , the knowledge will eat away at you . [ more tears fill his eyes , and Cami starts to tear up more as well ] Your quest for truth will only put you in danger .」
Cami:「You do n't care about me ! [ Klaus shakes his head ] You only want me to forget this so I can focus on Marcel ! So I 'll be a good little spy , for you !」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I need your loyalty , yes , and though it may appear selfish to you , the scope of my plan goes far beyond myself ! Power aside , I am trying to honor my brother !」
Cami:「[ bites her lip ] What about my brother ? My twin brother . We were bonded our whole lives , and I know , I KNOW , he did n't just snap . And I need to know who did this , and I need to make this right ! [ Klaus walks closer to her ] NO ! DON'T TAKE THIS AWAY FROM ME !」
narration:[ Klaus grabs Cami and compels her ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「You will do nothing . Your brother was ill . He killed those people and himself , and it was a tragedy . All you can do is move on .」

narration:[ He lets her go , and tears fall from her eyes as she sits down on her couch . Klaus takes her hand in his as he continues to compel her ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「Know that your brother is at peace , and that you need n't worry . I will find out what happened , and when I do , I will make sure whoever harmed your brother will suffer . And as for you ... Tonight , you will sleep , and you will dream of a world that is far better than this one ... a world where there is no evil , no demons , and all people desire only to be good .」

Elijah ( voiceover ):「My siblings and I are the first vampires in history , the Originals . Three hundred years ago , we helped to build the city of New Orleans . We were happy here , a family . Recently , a coven of witches lured my brother back , using his unborn child as leverage . I tried to help him , but he betrayed me to his enemy , the vampire , Marcel . Since then , I 've been held prisoner by a powerful witch . My brother seeks to manipulate others to procure my release . But , I have my own plan . If this witch proves to be an enemy , I will stop her . By whatever means necessary . Davina 's Attic - " Why should I trust you ? "」
narration:[ Elijah is standing in the attic , focusing on Davinas pulsing carotid artery . His skin looks very gray as a result of not feeding while he was daggered ]
Davina:「You 're the one they call honorable .」
narration:[ Elijah smiles ]
Elijah:「Yes , that 's what they call me . And yet , I followed my brother here to New Orleans to engage in a war . So , I ask you」
Davina:「You do n't look well .」
Elijah:「Well , only this morning I had a mystical dagger embedded in my chest , so I 'd say I 'm holding myself together quite well . [ beat ] Davina , I believe that you and I have the power to end a war between witches and vampires before it truly begins . I , by keeping my brother in line ; you , by behaving like your true self - not some tool for Marcel or the witches .」
Davina:「And why should I trust you ?」
Elijah:「Well , for one thing , in spite of a ravenous hunger , I have not tried to take your blood .」
Davina:「Why not ? I 'm the only one here .」
Elijah:「Even in my present condition , I would not feed from a child .」
narration:[ Davina takes a hat pin and pricks her finger with it . A drop of blood clings to the end of the needle , and she places the drop on Elijah 's lip . After a moment , Elijah 's skin returns to it 's normal complexion . Davina looks pleased ]
 [ OPENING CREDITS ]
 Mikaelson Mansion
 [ Klaus is pacing in the back kitchen of " Rousseau 's . " When Sophie comes in with some produce , Klaus grabs her and vamp - runs them back to the Mikaelson Mansion ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「We had a deal ! You protect my unborn child , I dismantle Marcel 's army . And whilst I 've been busy fulfilling my part of the bargain , you allowed Hayley to be attacked and almost killed by a gaggle of lunatic witches .」

Sophie:「I had nothing to do with it , I swear . Hayley and I are linked , remember ? She dies , I die .」
Rebekah:「Then who were they ?」
Sophie:「They are a faction of extremists . Sabine stupidly told them about some vision she had about the baby .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「What kind of vision ?」
Sophie:「She has them all the time . They are totally open to interpretation . I 'm guessing she 's wrong on this one .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Well , how , may I ask , was this particular vision interpreted ?」
Sophie:「Pretty much that your baby would bring death to all witches .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Ah , well . I grow fonder of this child by the second .」
Rebekah:「Sophie , look , I promised Elijah that I would protect the Mikaelson miracle baby whilst he tries to win your witch Davina 's loyalty . Why do n't you tell me just how extreme this faction is ?」
Sophie:「Elijah 's talking to Davina ?」
Rebekah:「Yeah . As we speak , I imagine .」
Sophie:「I 'm guessing she 'll have plenty to say about that crowd .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Do tell .」

Sophie:「I ... was n't always an advocate for the witches .」
narration:FLASHBACK - 8 MONTHS AGO
 [ At Rousseau 's , Sophie dances to music behind the bar as the crowd cheers ]
Sophie:「[ shouts to crowd ] Woo , drink up everybody ! This is how they party in Rio ! [ pours liquor straight into her mouth from the bottle ]
 [ present day ] My sister was devoted , like our parents , and our upbringing was very strict , which drove me nuts . The minute I turned 21 , I left the Quarter to travel ... and play . [ Flashback Sophie pours alcohol into a girl 's mouth and kisses her after she drinks it ] But , I wanted to be a chef , so I came back to Rousseau 's .」
narration:[ In flashback , Jane - Anne enters Rousseau 's to find her sister ]
Sophie:「Oh , Jane - Anne ! [ Jane - Anne smiles and the girls hug ]」
Jane - Anne:「Welcome home , Soph . Can we go some place to talk ?」
Sophie:「Just tell me .」
Jane - Anne:「The elders called a vote . We 're moving forward with the Harvest .」
Sophie:「[ stunned ] What ?」
narration:PRESENT DAY
Rebekah:「What the bloody hell is a Harvest ?」
Sophie:「It 's a ritual our coven does every three centuries , so that the bond to our ancestral magic is restored . We appease our ancestors , they keep our ancestral power flowing .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「And why have n't I heard of this ?」

Sophie:「Because a Harvest always seemed like a myth . A story , passed on through generations like Noah 's ark , or the Buddha walking on water . The kind some people take literally , and some people do n't .」
narration:FLASHBACK - HARVEST
 [ Some young witches are standing and kneeling in a row outside a farmhouse . An older witch , Bastiana , holds a knife ]
Bastiana:「[ makes a small cut on the first girl , Monique 's hand ] To be reborn , we must sacrifice .」
Monique:「To be reborn , we must sacrifice .」
Bastiana:「To be reborn , we must have faith . [ cuts the second girl 's hand ]」
Second Girl:「To be reborn , we must have faith .」
Bastiana:「Do you have faith in the Harvest ? [ cuts the third girl 's hand ]」
narration:[ Sophie shows up and approaches the witches ]
Sophie:「Not for a second !」
Monique:「Sophie !」
Sophie:「What are you doing ?」
Bastiana:「Saving the community you renounced .」
Sophie:「You 're all ridiculous . Monique , seriously ?」
Monique:「[ reluctantly ] My mom told me I had to .」
Sophie:「Yeah . Well , your mom and I are gon na have words .」
narration:[ Davina is the last girl in the row , and she watches as Sophie storms away ]
 PRESENT DAY
Sophie:「They had the girls of our community preparing for months . Four would be choosen for the Harvest . They said that it was an honor , that they were special . I thought it was a myth .」
Rebekah:「Was it ?」
narration:[ Sophie looks guilty , but before she can say anything , Klaus 's cell phone rings . He picks it up - it 's Marcel .
Klaus Mikaelson:「Marcel . Bit early in the day for you , is n't it ?」

Marcel:「I know , I make this look easy , but I still have an empire to run .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Rather you than me . All that responsibility seems like such a bore .」
Marcel:「Well , this might spice things up . I just heard about a bunch of dead witches out in the bayou . The kinda damage a werewolf might do , only there was no full moon . I have an informant out there I need to meet and I would love for you to go with me .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Dead witches in the bayou . Sounds like less of a problem , and more like a cause for celebration .」
Marcel:「Well , something killed them . And may still be out there . And with your blood the only cure for a werewolf bite , I would love for you to accompany me .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , why not ? Have n't been to the bayou in ages . I 'm on my way .」
Marcel:「Peace out , brother .」
narration:[ Marcel hangs up . He is holding a picture of a large house in his hands ]
Marcel:「[ to a woman he is with ] This is the one .」
narration:MIKAELSON MANSION

Sophie:「You ca n't go out there now . I need to gather the witches ' remains and consecrate them . If I do n't get to them before sundown , we 'll lose the link to their magic .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Those witches tried to kill Hayley . I 'd prefer for Marcel 's informant not to find anything that would lead him back to us , to her , or to ... you know , [ points at Hayley 's stomach ] that . Hayley[ points at Sophie ] Stay put . And save the rest of your story ' til I return .」
narration:St. Ann 's Church
 [ Father Kieran is sweeping the church when Marcel enters . ]
Father Kieran:「Look who 's back . Here to visit your prisoner in the attic ?」
Marcel:「Lay off . She 's not a prisoner . And I 'm moving her tonight . Too many people know where she is .」
Father Kieran:「I have been hearing about what you 've been up to since I 've been out of town . Using that girl to keep the witches from doing magic ?」
Marcel:「All respect , Father K. If you 're going defend the witches ' rights , we got nothin' to talk about .」

narration:Davina 's Attic
 [ Davina is drawing while Elijah walks around . He holds Tim 's damaged violin in his hand ]
Elijah:「Do you play ? Davina」
narration:[ Elijah sits in a chair and tinkers with the violin for a moment , until Marcel 's steps can be heard from outside the room . When he enters , Elijah has hidden himself away ]
Marcel:「Good news , Little D. I 'm moving you out this pile of dust .」
Davina:「Are you serious ? When ? Marcel
 Uh , do n't disturb the body ! I have a spell in progress .」
Marcel:「Bet you do . Pack up , ' kay ? Only what you wanna take . I 'll buy ya anything else you need .」
Davina:「Okay .」
narration:[ Marcel leaves the attic . Elijah appears from behind a corner ]
Elijah:「You did n't reveal that I was awake . Davina」
narration:[ Elijah picks up the violin again and sits down ]
Elijah:「You and Marcel seem very close .」
Davina:「Marcel 's my family .」
Elijah:「And yet Marcel is someone who delights in harming the witches . Those people , I would think , you would consider family . This does n't trouble you ?」
Davina:「No . They deserve it .」
Elijah:「Why would you say that ?」
Davina:「'Cause they 're liars . All of them .」
narration:[ Return to the flashback of the young witches and the elder witches by the farmhouse . The girls still kneel in a row , and Bastiana touches four of the girls ' foreheads to indicate who has been chosen . Monique , Davina , and two other girls were chosen for the Harvest ]
Davina:「( voiceover ) They made me and my friends do this Harvest ritual . They said our participation would bring our family strength , health ... that we 'd forever be celebrated as saviors of the community . But all they really wanted was more power . So , I left before they could get it . Now , they 're running out of time , because after the Harvest , comes the Reaping . And if they do n't complete the Harvest , there wo n't be a Reaping . Soon , all the witches in the Quarter will start to lose their power . Eventually , they will cease to be witches altogether . Elijah
 I have to die .」
narration:[ Elijah is shocked by this revelation ]
 Lafayette Cemetery
 [ Sophie is in the cemetery , packing a little bottle into her backpack , when Hayley enters the mausoleum ]
Sophie:「Hey . What the hell ?」
Hayley:「You 're going out there anyway , are n't you ? I wanna go with you .」
Sophie:「No , thanks . Already got assaulted by Klaus this morning . Do n't need a repeat .」
Hayley:「What if whatever is responsible for all those dead witches is still out there ? We 've already established that it likes me and hates witches , so you 'll be safer with me .」

Sophie:「Sorry if I 'm not buying your sudden concern for my safety .」
narration:[ Hayley blocks the exit , forcing Sophie to stop . ]
Hayley:「Listen . The whole reason I came to this stupid town in the first place was to learn more about my family . Your sister 's the one that told me Marcel ran the werewolves out of the Quarter , into the bayou . And , last night , I 'm pretty sure that some guardian - angel - wolf saved my life . So , I 'm coming with you .」
narration:[ Rebekah walks in to the mausoleum and joins the girls ]
Rebekah:「Could you two be more idiotic ?」
narration:[ Hayley and Sophie both look around at each other and sigh ]
Rebekah:「Two can play the follow - game , you know ! You heard Klaus , he and Marcel are headed right where you 're going .」
Hayley:「So distract them . Because unless you wanna see lock a hormonal , pregnant werewolf in a tomb , I 'm coming with you . And would n't Elijah be mad if he hears that the baby and I died of asphyxiation ?」
narration:[ Rebekah stares at her , annoyed . Sophie rolls her eyes and sighs again , resigned to having Hayley and Rebekah tag along ]
 Big Auggie 's Bayou Bar
 [ Klaus is standing in front of the bar , phoning Rebekah ]
Klaus Mikaelson:「What 's the matter Rebekah ? You cross that I 'm out with your ex ?」

Rebekah:「What is all that dreadful hillbilly ruckus in the background ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「According to the dreadful signage , it 's Big Auggie 's Bayou Bar .」
Rebekah:「Well , order up a few rounds of moonshine and steer clear of the dead witches for a few . The witch is on a burial mission , your baby mama is on a spirit quest , and I 'm keeping Elijah 's promise to keep her safe , so stall , please ?」
narration:[ Rebekah hangs up the phone . Klaus , who is angry and annoyed , enters the bar ]
Marcel:「Everything okay ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「Oh , just the usual . Temperamental sister . So , where 's your informant ?」
Marcel:「Tomas ? He 's out sniffin ' around . Grab a drink , and then we 'll chase him down . Klaus
 You never stop , do you ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「You never answer , do you ?」
Marcel:「Why 're you so curious about Davina ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「If I had a 16-year - old , all - powerful witch at my beck and call , you would wonder about her , too .」
Marcel:「You 're never gon na get her .」

Klaus Mikaelson:「Okay , okay . I 'll ask the harmless questions , then . How did you meet her ?」
Marcel:「[ laughs ] That might surprise you . This was eight months ago , before I banned the witches from using magic . Relations between vampires and witches were n't what you 'd you call friendly , by any means , but let 's just say we were a little less ... divided . In fact , some of us were getting along just fine .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 [ Sophie Deveraux and Marcel are taking a shower together , making out with each other and presumably having s*x . Afterward , Marcel lies in his bed , while Sophie dries herself off beside him ]
Sophie:「Ugh , it 's so screwed up , I 'm dealing with whacked - out , militant witches .」
Marcel:「[ smiling ] Hey , you witches all got a little crazy in you .」
Sophie:「And my sister has really gone off the deep - end this time .」
Marcel:「Jane - Anne 's got martyr written all over her , that 's for sure .」
Sophie:「They 've got every 16-year - old girl in our coven dying to be one of the four chosen for this crazy - ass ritual .」
Marcel:「Anything I can do to help ? Sophie」

Sophie:「[ giggles ] You 're a dick . You always stir it up with the witches . Which is why this [ kisses him ] stays between us . [ kisses him deeply ]」
narration:PRESENT DAY
Klaus Mikaelson:「You and Sophie ? You hypocrite . You torture those witches , and yet there you were , getting positively Romeo and Juliet with Sophie Deveraux .」
Marcel:「Oh , hey hey hey , it was n't like that . It was a ... mutually satisfying hook - up .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「So , if Sophie did n't turn to you , her secret vampire lover , in her hour of need , what did she do ?」
Marcel:「She did what any good girl do . She went to her priest .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 [ Sophie , Father Kieran , Jane - Anne , Bastiana and Agnes are in the St. Anne 's Church ]
Bastiana:「You 've never cared about witch business , Sophie . And now , you have the gall to reveal our private dealings to an outsider .」
Father Kieran:「You have to find another way .」
Bastiana:「You think we do this lightly ? The vampire presence in the Quarter is growing stronger , we need more power to fight them off . Harsh times call for harsh measures .」

Sophie:「This is a little more than harsh , Bastiana .」
Jane - Anne:「[ to Sophie ] You do n't understand , because you do n't believe . You 've never believed . But I believe enough to put everything on the line for this . And being chosen for the offering - it 's an honor .」
Sophie:「It 's a myth , Jane - Anne .」
Father Kieran:「What you are planning to do is not only wrong ; in my city , it 's illegal .」
Jane - Anne:「In your city full of vampires ? Father Kieran」
Bastiana:「We are simply taking what we need . Our connection to our ancestors weakens over time . You sow , and you reap ; that 's the way the Harvest works .」
Father Kieran:「I am the only ally the witches have in this town ! Do you really wanna face Marcel without me ? Because that is what you 'll be dealing with if you go through with the Harvest .」
narration:[ Sean O'Connell hears the argument and comes out to investigate ]
Sean:「Everything okay in here , Uncle Kieran ?」
Father Kieran:「We 're just finishing , Sean . Right ? [ glares at the witches ] I believe I 've made myself clear .」
Agnes:「We 'll take this matter to the elders . [ turns to Sean and grasps his hand in hers ] Continue your studies , Sean . Your uncle is an excellent role model . [ smiles ]」
narration:[ Sean nods , and as Agnes turns to leave , she mutters a hex under her breath ]
 PRESENT DAY
Marcel:「The witches were furious with Kieran . Sophie tells me that the witches put a hex on his nephew Sean , made it seem like he was slowly losing his mind in order to distract Kieran , while they kept planning for the Harvest .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「[ angry ] So they attacked Kieran 's nephew .」

Marcel:「Yeah . Kid was n't the same after that , ended up going postal , killing all his fellow seminary students , all of them , and then himself .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I might have read about that . The boy ... killed a twin , or he was a twin or something .」
Marcel:「Ah , no no no , they said he had a twin sister .」
narration:[ Marcel sips his liquor , while Klaus downs all of his in one gulp , obviously angered at learning that the witches hexed Cami 's brother into killing all of those people ]
 Davina 's attic
 [ Elijah is still fiddling around with the violin as Davina packs her suitcase ]
Elijah:「So , enlighten me . What did you mean when you said you had to die ?」

Davina:「That 's was the Harvest was . They said they 'd put us four girls in a state of , like , peaceful limbo as part of the offering . And then later , at the Reaping , we 'd awaken and be reborn . I never got as far as the limbo part , which means the Harvest is n't complete . That 's why the witches are so freaked out . The Reaping is just around the corner , and if they do n't finish it before then , it 's over . All I have to do is wait it out .」
Elijah:「And then what ?」
Davina:「They 're punished , and I 'm free .」
Elijah:「From Marcel ?」
Davina:「Of magic . All our power will drain away . I 'll be normal .」
narration:[ Davina smiles slightly ]
Elijah:「Is that what you want ? To be normal ?」
Davina:「I just do n't wanna be what I am . I ca n't control it sometimes . Magic . I ... [ tears up ] hurt people . Even when I do n't mean to .」
Elijah:「Why do n't you tell me about your friends . You must miss them .」
Davina:「There 's Tim . He does n't know about any of this witch stuff . He 's normal . My best friend , Monique . She was a part of the Harvest too . She 's lucky . No one ever fought for me , but someone fought for her . The only one who ever spoke out against the Harvest was Monique 's aunt .」
Elijah:「And who is that ?」
Davina:「[ sighs ] Sophie Deveraux .」
narration:[ Elijah continues to look shocked about what he is learning ]
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 The Bayou
 [ Sophie , Rebekah and Hayley continue to walk around the Bayou to look for the dead witches ]
Rebekah:「So , this Harvest thingy - tell me more .」
Sophie:「Klaus said to wait . Rebekah」
Hayley:「We 're here .」
narration:[ They have reached the place where the witches were killed . They 're all bloodied and ripped apart , and a dismembered head lies near the bodies . Sophie , who looks sick , kneels down to dig around her bag for the ingredients she needs to consecrate her fellow witches ]
Hayley:「Whoa .」
narration:[ Hayley sees a huge pawprint in the mud . In a nearby tree , there are three bloody scratches in the bark ]
Sophie:「Is that a wolf track ?」
narration:[ They hear a crunching noise , like footsteps , nearby ]
Rebekah:「[ calls out ] Who 's there ?」
narration:[ The person approaching them is a male vampire - Marcel 's informant , Tomas ]
Thomas:「What the hell ? An Original ?」
narration:[ He runs away with vampire speed , leaving the girls standing and gaping ]
 [ Klaus walks outside of Big Auggie 's Bayou Bar as he talks to Rebekah on his cell phone ]

Klaus Mikaelson:「Let me understand this」
Rebekah:「Yes , and now that we 've established that I am a failure as a sister , and a friend , and an Original , you should probably know he 's on his way to Marcel right now to rat me out . Skinny guy in a hurry , looks like he saw a ghost .」
Klaus Mikaelson:「I 'll handle it , but I 'll need a distraction . [ smiles ]」
Rebekah:「I 'm on my way .」
narration:[ She hangs up , and swats at a mosquito that has landed on her arm . Klaus enters the bar again . ]
Marcel:「Your sister again ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「She craves attention . So come along , you were just getting to the juicy bits .」
Marcel:「I ca n't joke around about this . I 've done a lot in my day , but I do have a rule about kids .」
narration:[ The story about the Harvest continues as Marcel tells it to Klaus , and Davina tells it to Elijah . The scenes alternate between the two storytellers , as well as flashback sequences . ]
 DAVINA 'S ATTIC

Davina:「No one but Sophie ever questioned the Harvest . Not even my own mother . So neither did I. We thought it was such an honor , we had such faith . We were so stupid .」
Elijah:「So how did it begin ?」
Davina:「We were led out like princesses . My mother was so proud .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 [ It 's night now , and the four girls are led into the Lafayette Cemetery by the elders to start the Harvest . There are birdbaths with liquid that is lit on fire burning around them ]
Bastiana:「Our magic fades as our ties to our ancestors weaken over time . We beseech them , accept this offering as a sign of our faith .」
narration:[ The girls kneel in a row in the middle of the crowd of people ]
 DAVINA 'S ATTIC
Davina:「Bastiana , one of the Elders , called upon the four elements to bind our past and future magic together . Earth , to connect us to our ancestors . Water , to heal the community . Wind , to carry us to our ancestors and back . Fire , to purify . After all our preperation , we knew exactly what to expect . For weeks they told us that the magic in the knife they used to cut our palms would put us to sleep , and that later at the Reaping , we would all be resurrected . They said we 'd awaken , and all be together and more powerful than ever . And it was just like we rehearsed it . All that was left was a little cut on our palms for the blood sacrifice .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 [ The first girl stands up to begin the Harvest , but is interrupted when Sophie runs into the cemetery ]
Sophie:「No ! Stop ! Bastiana , stop ! You have to stop , Bastiana , please do n't do this !」
narration:[ A male witch wraps his arms around Sophie to restrain her , and covers her mouth with his hand so she ca n't intervene or scream anymore ]
Davina:「[ voiceover ] Even after Sophie tried to stop it , we did n't suspect anything .」
Bastiana:「To be born , you must sacrifice . Do you have faith ?」
narration:[ The girl nods in response , and holds out her hand for the blood sacrifice . Instead , Bastiana slits the girl 's throat , and the young witch falls to the ground . The other three girls start to scream in terror , but they 're also restrained so that they ca n't run away . Davina 's mother stares straight ahead as her daughter screams ]
 DAVINA 'S ATTIC
Elijah:「Everyone involved in the ritual knew that this would happen .」
Davina:「Except the four of us . They were n't putting us to sleep , they were slaughtering us !」
narration:FLASHBACK
 [ The next witch is pushed forward , and Bastiana slashes her throat with the knife as well , despite her protests ]
Davina:「No , no !」
Bastiana:「Monique Deveraux .」
Davina:「NO , NO , NOOO !」

narration:[ A man forces Monique forward to be sacrificed next ]
Davina:「[ voiceover ] I begged for someone to help . My own mother turned away from me . Sophie screamed and screamed for her sister , anyone , to do something .」
Sophie:「What is wrong with you ! ?」
narration:[ Jane - Anne looks worried , but does nothing ]
 DAVINA 'S ATTIC
Davina:「But no one did . Elijah」
narration:[ Davina nods ]
Davina:「Yes . Someone finally did .」
narration:FLASHBACK
Sophie:「Monique , run away ! Run away !」
narration:[ A shrill whistle can be heard , and a group of vampires , led by Marcel , infiltrates the cemetery and they start killing the witches ]
Sophie:「Marcel .」
narration:BIG AUGGIE 'S BAYOU BAR
Klaus Mikaelson:「You 're the one who stopped it .」

Marcel:「Kieran knew every detail from Sophie . After his nephew 's massacre in the church , he was so torn up . He left town just before the Harvest . But on his way out , he came to me , and he asked me to stop the Harvest . He knew I did n't want the witches getting any more power . And I do have a rule about people abusing kids , so , I did what he asked . But I was too late .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 [ The vampires are still attacking the Elders . A vampire bites Bastiana and feeds on her until she dies , and when her body falls to the ground , so does the magic knife in her hand . Another vampire bites and kills Davina 's mom . Agnes picks up the knife from the ground , and grabs Monique and slits her throat with it . Davina screams , hysterical and trying to break free . ]
Davina:「No , Monique ! Nooo ! Let go of me ! Stop it ! Stop it ! Let go of me ! Stop it !」
narration:[ Davina fights against the guy holding her . Marcel watches her fight against him as she headbutts the guy in the face , so Marcel kills the man and grabs Davina protectively ]
Marcel:「I got you .」
narration:BIG AUGGIE 'S BAYOU BAR
Marcel:「There was something about seeing Davina fight . She did n't just go along to the slaughter , you know ?」
Klaus Mikaelson:「[ smiles slightly ] I do ... Marcellus . Marcel」
