narrator:CONTINUED: (3) But the boy is more shocked than-any of them. He stares with horror at the claws, this part of him he never knew existed. He stands and stumbles away from Gilman. Mason runs over, lifts his punch-drunk friend to his feet, and hustles him toward the Oldsmobile. The other football players pile in, slam the doors shut, and speed off, leaving the boy alone by the side of the road. The boy stares at his claws and for the first time we see fear in his eyes. He screams, a scream that echoes over the black spruce, into the darkening northern sky.
 INT. CABIN - MORNING
 LOGAN wakes. with a wordless shout, sitting upright, shirtless, in a bed covered with shredded bedsheets. KAYLA SILVERFOX (25) wraps her arms around him and whispers in his ear.
KAYLA:「It's okay... shh... it's okay. Logan pants, chest heaving, eyes wild, gripping the tattered sheets in his fists. Kayla holds him tight until his bone claws retract. KAYLA I'm right here with you. Okay? I'm right here with you. Kayla, a full-blooded Innu, wears her long black hair pulled back in a ponytail. She's been sleeping in one of Logan's flannel shirts. KAYLA The war dreams or the one where you're a kid? Logan takes a deep breath, finally calming down. He relaxes into Kayla's arms.」
Logan:「The one where I'm a kid. Kayla runs her fingers through his thick hair, kissing his forehead. He sees that she has a small cut on her forearm. He takes her arm and looks at the wound.」

narrator:CONTINUED: CHRISTOPH NORD, A.K.A. AGENT ZERO, looks more like a death row convict than a military man. A family of tattooed spiders walk down his neck.
 STRYKER
 SMILING) I even showered today. Logan turns, the axe gripped in his hand. STRYKER Been a long time, Logan. You haven't aged a day. Everyone else gets old and gray, but not you.
Logan:「How'd you find me?」
STRYKER:「We never lost you, my friend. I believe you know my colleague? Logan and Agent Zero stare at each other. There is a history between these two and clearly the memories are not fond. STRYKER We're with the Department of Agriculture now.」
Logan:「Agriculture? You working with farmers? Agent Zero grins. There is nothing pleasant about his grin,.」
AGENT ZERO:「Pest Control Division. Working with exterminators.」
Logan:「puffing on his cigar) Still shooting first, asking questions later? In one blindingly fast motion, Agent Zero pulls a customized automatic from his shoulder holster, fires, and reholsters.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2)
Logan:「That was a buck twenty-five, asshole. Stryker holds up both hands, one palm to Logan, one to Zero.」
STRYKER:「Boys, please. (to Logan) Could we take a minute of your time?」
Logan:「You're taking it.」
STRYKER:「We want you back. Logan turns away from them. He tosses aside the axe, picks up a load of firewood and . stacks. it beside the cabin. STRYKER You're a born warrior. You can hide up here as long as you want, that's never gonna change.」
Logan:「Not interested.」
STRYKER:「It's... creative work, I can assure you of that. And it pays well.」
Logan:「Already got a job.」
AGENT ZERO:「Lumberjack. Eighteen grand a.year.」
Logan:「Eighteen five.」
AGENT ZERO:「You content chopping down trees?」
Logan:「Yeah, I am. It's good work. And I haven't killed anybody in three years.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (3)
Logan:「Right about now I am. Agent Zero grins, enjoying the game. Stryker, seeing that this is going badly, tries to break the tension.」
STRYKER:「We're putting together a team. Best men in the business. Men with... special qualities. Men like you.」
Logan:「Forget it. Logan walks around to the front of the cabin. Stryker and Agent Zero follow. Logan's battered old pickup truck is parked beside the newcomers' Lincoln.」
STRYKER:「It's a team of hunters. We're going after some very bad people. Logan climbs into the driver's seat. STRYKER You read the papers, Logan? They're killing mutants. Logan closes the door, turns the key and revs the engine to warm it. Stryker taps on the window. Logan grits his teeth and rolls down the window, not looking at the colonel. STRYKER Listen to me. They have names. They have addresses.」
Logan:「I can take care of myself.」
STRYKER:「All right, forget about yourself. Your country needs you.」
Logan:「I'm Canadian. He hits the gas, forcing Stryker to jump back lest the tires run over his foot. Stryker and Agent Zero watch him go.」

narrator:EXT. DISTRICT UNIFIED SCHOOL - DAY
 Logan parks in the lot of a sprawling brick grammar school. He gets out of the truck and walks toward the main building. The school day has ended. STUDENTS meet up with their MOMS or DADS for the ride home. As Logan rounds a corner, he stops in his tracks, looking around. Something's not quite right. Logan'ducks his head at the last. possible second and a snowball whizzes past, missing him by inches. Six FOURTH GRADERS (four boys and two girls) charge at him, hurling snowballs and screaming.
 FOURTH GRADERS Get him! Logan jumps back around the corner, out of sight. The fourth graders chase after him, round the corner with their throwing hands cocked, ready to launch some serious ice. Logan is nowhere in sight. The fourth graders turn in confused circles, searching for their target, snowballs melting in their hands.
Logan:「O.S.) Hey, fellas. The boys and girls look up and see Logan sitting on a second- floor window ledge. He has already formed six perfect snowballs, with which he proceeds to pelt the fourth graders. The kids run, screaming and laughing, nearly colliding with Kayla, who rounds the corner and stares up at Logan.」

KAYLA:「Nice. Logan, caught with a snowball in his hand, looks sheepish.」
Logan:「They started it.」

narrator:INT. PICKUP TRUCK - LATER
 Logan drives Kayla home over roads slick with black ice. She sings softly along with the country song on the radio.
Logan:「Stryker came by the house today.」
KAYLA:「Stryker? Colonel Stryker? The one you told me about? (off Logan's nod) What did he want?」
Logan:「Wants me back.」
KAYLA:「And?」
Logan:「Told him no.」
KAYLA:「So why can't they get someone else? Logan thinks about it for a moment. When he speaks there is a degree of self-loathing in his tone.」
Logan:「I'm the best there is at what I do. And what I do best isn't very nice. Kayla studies the side of his face for a moment. LOGAN Maybe he's right. Maybe it's the only thing I'm good for. Kayla watches him. Logan shakes his head as if ridding himself of an errant thought. LOGAN Son of a bitch had me thinking about it for a minute. He wraps his arm around her shoulders and pulls her closer. f CONTTN11Fn1」

narrator:CONTINUED: LOGAN I'm not going anywhere. First time in my life, I don't feel like a freak.
KAYLA:「Hey. You're not a freak.」
Logan:「Most guys don't have to worry about gutting their girlfriend when they have a bad dream.」
KAYLA:「You're not a freak. You've got a gift.」
Logan:「A gift? Logan shakes his head, staring at the black ribbon of road. LOGAN You can return a gift..」
narrator:INT. CABIN - NIGHT
 A well-built fire burns in the fireplace. Logan and Kayla sit naked in front of it, wrapped in an old flannel quilt.
KAYLA:「The kids made cornhusk dolls today in Arts and Crafts. She reaches for her bag and pulls out a little doll. KAYLA I made one for you. Kayla hands him the doll and he examines it by firelight. Given the limitations of the art form, it's a skillful representation of Logan, unique hairstyle and all.」
Logan:「I look like Elvis.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
Logan:「Full moon tomorrow.」
KAYLA:「You know why the moon's so lonely? Logan shakes his head. Kayla lies back, resting her head on Logan's leg as he plays with her hair. KAYLA She used to have a lover. Kuekuatsheu. They lived in the Spirit World and every night they'd wander the skies together. But one of the other spirits was jealous. Trickster wanted the Moon for himself. So he told Kuekuatsheu the Moon asked for flowers. He told him to come to our world and pick her some wild roses.」
Logan:「Never trust a guy named Trickster.」
KAYLA:「Yeah, well, you do some stupid things when you're in love. Kuekuatsheu didn't know that once you leave the Spirit World, you can never go back. Now he's trapped here. Every night the Moon searches for him and every night he sees her in the sky and howls her name... but he can never touch her again. For a moment they're both quiet, contemplating the sad myth.」
Logan:「Koo-koo-choo got screwed.」

narrator:EXT. LOGGING CAMP - MORNING
 Kayla drops Logan off at the logging camp. The site is already loud with motorized activity. TRIMMERS remove the limbs from fallen trees. TEAMSTERS in forklifts load logs onto flatbed trucks. Logan comes around to the driver's side window, holding his orange Husqvarna chainsaw in one hand.
KAYLA:「Be careful. Logan bends forward to kiss her on the lips. He turns and walks towards a crew of LUMBERJACKS circled around a SUPERVISOR with a clipboard. Logan turns when he hears a honk. Kayla leans out the window. KAYLA I love you, by the way. Logan notices that dozens of lumberjacks are watching this scene. He clears his throat.」
Logan:「T love you, too.」

narrator:lB.
 CONTINUED: PHELAN What you got there? The other lumberjacks gather around Logan. A severed bear's head, haloed by buzzing flies, rots in the sun. PHELAN Goddamn.
 VAN MIER Hunter?
 MARCUSE Why would a hunter leave the head?
Logan:「Bullet didn't kill this bear.」

narrator:CONTINUED: Victor Creed walks toward the truck. He scrapes his talons over the hood: screeeeee. Five parallel gashes now scar the hood, carved straight through the steel.
 EXT. TIMBER STAND - CONTINUOUS
 Logan, hearing a noise the other men can't, rises from his crouch. He looks to the west, listening carefully.
 PHELAN What's the matter-- Logan holds up a hand: quiet. He hears a distant scream. A. voice he knows better than any other. He runs, leaving his astonished co-workers behind. No one can run through the woods faster than Logan and'Logan has never needed to run faster. He vaults fallen trees, ducks under branches, accelerates when he hits the access road.
 EXT. ACCESS ROAD - MINUTES LATER
 Logan sees the pickup truck in the distance. Even a hundred yards away he can tell that something is.wrong. It seems impossible that he could run any faster, but now he does, reaching the truck in seconds. He sees the claw marks gouged through the steel hood. He sees.the driver's side door tossed onto the asphalt twenty yards. from the truck. And finally he sees Kayla, curled in the fetal position on the side of the access road. Blood puddles beneath her. Her skin has already begun to lose its 'color. He runs to her, kneels beside her body, hands checking for a pulse, listening for breath, trying desperately to find any sign of life in her lifeless form.
Logan:「Come on, you're okay. Say something. Say something, darling. Say something. Kayla, come on. He cradles her in his arms. LOGAN You're okay. You're okay.」

narrator:CONTINUED: Logan lunges forward, grabbing the surgeon's collar and pulling the startled man's face next to his own.
Logan:「Where is he?」
narrator:MALE NURSE #1 Hey, hey, easy-- The male nurses struggle to restrain Logan but he's too strong for them. The surgeon gasps for air.
Logan:「Where is he?」
STRYKER:「O.S.) His name is Victor Creed. Logan turns and sees Stryker standing at the entrance to the operating room. STRYKER I can help you find him.」
narrator:EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY
 Logan storms out of the hospital, followed by Stryker.
STRYKER:「He escaped from an ultramax penitentiary in Nevada last year. Started murdering mutants. Shape- changer in New Mexico, pair of telekinetic twins in California-- Logan turns on Stryker, grabbing the colonel by the throat and shoving him against a lamp post.」
Logan:「Three years I been here. Three years everything's good. Nobody knows me. And then one day you show up and the next day she's dead.」
STRYKER:「I came to warn you--」
Logan:「You knew he was coming. f CONTTNfJRD 1」

narrator:CONTINUED: Stryker shakes his head as well as he can with Logan's hand on his throat. Stryker's face is turning red. LOGAN How did you know?
STRYKER:「He got the List.」
Logan:「What list? Stryker chokes, gasping for air. Logan eases up on his grip but doesn't release the man. Stryker takes a deep breath.」
STRYKER:「The List. Every known mutant in North America. Government's been keeping it for years. Names, addresses, everything.」
Logan:「How did he get it?」
STRYKER:「Someone must have leaked it to him. There are people in Washington who want to see you all destroyed. Logan releases Stryker. The ex-colonel straightens his jacket collar and composes himself.」
Logan:「Creed's a mutant, too.」
STRYKER:「Apparently he doesn't have much tribal loyalty. Logan turns and walks away. He looks like a homeless man, his clothes torn and bloodied, his hair disheveled. He walks fast. Stryker calls after him. STRYKER Do you have a plan, Captain?」
Logan:「I'm not in the Army anymore.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) Logan turns and stares at Stryker.
Logan:「I'm gonna track him down and I'm gonna end him. That's the plan.」

narrator:CONTINUED: A red-bearded scientist, DR. CORNELIUS, draws blood from Logan with a syringe. An Army surgeon, CAROL HINES, marks Logan's skin with an indelible pen. He looks like a Maori warrior, his body mapped with strange lines, dots and x's. Stryker watches Hines work.
STRYKER:「Could you unsheath your claws? Logan raises his left hand. The bone claws pop out, the same length they were before Creed shattered them. STRYKER Remarkable. Full regeneration. Logan examines the markings on his forearm.」
Logan:「The hell you planning on doing to me? Hines gives Stryker a worried look but he ignores her.」
STRYKER:「We're going to make you indestructible. But first we have to destroy you. Stryker heads for the door but stops midway and turns. STRYKER I forgot to give you something. He reaches into his jacket pocket, pulls out an old set of dog tags and tosses them to Logan. Logan inspects the tags with ambivalence.」
Logan:「Never wanted to put these on again.」

STRYKER:「The man's well-being is not my concern. Proving that the science works-- that's what matters. Hines does not relish confrontation and she's afraid of Stryker. But she gives it one more try.」
HINES:「Sir... I took the Hippocratic Oath. I swore I'd never intentionally harm another human being. Stryker turns on Hines, jabbing his finger at her.」
STRYKER:「You also swore. to protect your nation. You remember that oath, Lieutenant Hines?」
HINES:「Yes sir, but I don't understand why-」
STRYKER:「I don't need you to understand. I need you to follow orders. Stryker continues down the corridor, leaving Hines standing alone in the fluorescent light.」
narrator:INT. SURGICAL PREP ROOM - MOMENTS LATER
 Hines enters the room to find Logan sitting on the examining table, paging through a magazine. He smiles up at her.
Logan:「You ready for me, Doc?」

narrator:CONTINUED: An array of stainless-steel machines crowds around the tank, including a series of robotic arms that taper into foot-long needles. One wall of the theater is glass. Behind the glass is the control room, where Stryker looks on, hands behind his back. Dr. Cornelius and several SUPPORT STAFF enter data into computers monitoring the experiment. Logan removes his robe and hands it to Hines before stepping into the tank of water.
Logan:「See you on'the other side. One of the technicians fastens a breathing tube, connected to an oxygen tank, to Logan's mouth. Logan lies down, submerging himself in the cold water. The technician clamps Logan's wrists and ankles into place with stainless-steel shackles bolted to the plexiglass walls. Logan's eyes are open as he watches the robotic arms swivel into place, poised above him like a gang of metal vipers.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 HEATHER HUDSON
 GOOD-HUMORED) Yep. Yep. Forty years of conversation, all I get is yeps. Heather grabs her husband's arm. HEATHER HUDSON Jimmy! James turns in time to see a naked man sprint across the snow and slip inside a red sheep barn. HEATHER HUDSON I think there's a naked man in the barn.
JAMES HUDSON:「yep.」
narrator:INT. SHEEP BARN - DAY
 James Hudson cautiously slides his barn door open. He holds an old shotgun in his hands, a gun he hasn't fired in years. He advances slowly into the barn, sunlight from the open door falling on the scattered straw. A vintage motorcycle covered in a tarp stands near the side wall. Hudson looks inside each sheep pen. His thick-wooled SHEEP, ready for breakfast, bleat hopefully. In the third pen Hudson finds Logan, who has covered himself with straw. A few curious sheep sniff at the fugitive's face. Hudson stares at Logan, who stares back somewhat, well, sheepishly.
JAMES HUDSON:「Son... What in hell are you doing?」
Logan:「Sorry... It's a little cold out there.」
JAMES HUDSON:「Uh huh. It's the middle of January and you got no clothes on.」
Logan:「That's probably it.」

narrator:CONTINUED: Hudson sighs and lowers his shotgun.
JAMES HUDSON:「You're not on the drugs, are you?」
Logan:「No sir.」
JAMES HUDSON:「Just had a rough night?」
Logan:「Pretty rough, yeah.」
JAMES HUDSON:「All right, come on. I got some old clothes'll probably fit you. He turns and Logan begins covering strategic places with wads of straw. JAMES HUDSON I'll take you around back so my wife don't see you again.」
Logan:「Sorry if I scared her.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
HEATHER HUDSON:「Jimmy. Let the boy eat. Logan piles eggs onto a slice of buttered toast.」
JAMES HUDSON:「I'm just wondering. We're twenty miles from town. It's a miracle you didn't get hypothermia out there.」
Logan:「I've got good circulation. (gesturing toward barn) Nice chopper you got out there, by the way. James's face lights up. Logan has found the man's passion.,」
JAMES HUDSON:「You know motorcycles?」
Logan:「What is it, '48 Panhead?」

narrator:CONTINUED: Logan accelerates and opens up thirty yards of breathing room. He turns and sees Agent Zero catching up again. Logan clamps on the brakes, hard. He holds out his left hand and extends his claws. The tips of the blades scrape the asphalt and sparks fly. The SUV cannot brake in time. As it hurtles past the motorcycle, Logan's claws hit the SUV's front tire and shred it instantly. A split-second later he shreds the rear tire. The SUV totters, falls to its side, and barrel rolls across the empty road. It ends up on its roof in a drainage ditch, wheels still spinning in the air. Logan turns his bike and pulls up next to the upended SUV. He lowers the kickstand, stands, and walks to the driver's side. Agent Zero, bloodied and dazed, has managed to push open the door. He leans out and aims his shotgun at Logan, who slices the weapon into four pieces with a sweep of his claws. Logan grabs Agent Zero by the back of the neck and hauls him out of the car.
Logan:「Those were good people back there. Innocent people. Agent Zero surreptitiously pulls a commando knife from a sheath on his ankle.」

AGENT ZERO:「You ever notice good people tend to die when they spend time with you? He swings the knife at the side of Logan's neck.`Logan catches Agent Zero's wrist and slams it against the door frame. Agent Zero drops the knife with a pained smile. He didn't think that would work. AGENT ZERO Maybe you should stick with the bad people. We're more your speed.」
Logan:「I got a message for your boss.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2)
 AGENT ZERO
 SMIRKING) Yeah? Tell me. The smirk fades from Zero's face as he sees the adamantium claws plunging toward his heart.
 EXT. GAS STATION - DAY
 Logan stands at a pay phone beside the Texaco station, watching a couple of SKATEBOARD PUNKS practice their ollies. He punches in a number and waits for the connection.
 OPERATOR (O.S.) Department of Agriculture.
Logan:「Get me the Pest Control Division.」
narrator:OPERATOR (O.S.) I'm sorry, sir, there is no Pest Control Division.
Logan:「Why don't you get 'em anyway. And tell 'em Logan's calling. While he waits he watches one of the kids attempt a backside tailslide on the curb. The kid loses his balance and wipes out, skinning his palms on the asphalt.」
STRYKER:「O.S.) Where are you?」
Logan:「controlled fury) You shouldn't have killed those people. All they were doing was helping a stranger.」

narrator:EXT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
 We continue to INTERCUT between the gas station and Stryker's office.
Logan:「They had nothing to do with this. You let that mad dog gun 'em down like they were animals.」
STRYKER:「I'm giving you an order, soldier! Return tobase--」
Logan:「Had enough orders for one lifetime.」
narrator:BEAT) I'm going after Victor Creed. For several seconds there is silence on the line.
STRYKER:「We're bringing you in. One way or another, we're bringing you in. Logan bows his head, considering his next words.」
Logan:「People like you are always waiting for the next war. You start one with me, Colonel, you better sleep with the lights on. He hangs up the phone and walks to his bike. The skateboard punks give him a wide berth.」

narrator:CONTINUED: Logan turns to look at a REDHEAD in a tight silver dress, waiting at the light in her Cadillac convertible. She looks like she's expensive, and she looks like she'd be worth it.
Logan:「You're way out of my league, darlin'.」
narrator:LADY OF THE NIGHT You never know. You looking for a good time with a bad woman? Logan smiles and shakes his head.
Logan:「Not tonight. The redhead purses her lips.」
narrator:LADY OF THE NIGHT You don't know what you're missing. Logan revs his engine as the light changes.
Logan:「I know exactly what I'm missing. The courtesan waits at the green light,. watching Logan speed off into the night -」

narrator:CONTINUED:
WRAITH:「This is a contact sport, ladies. If you don't like hitting people, try golf. Logan comes up behind Wraith, unseen by the Texan..」
Logan:「You talk tough for a guy who always let me do the dirty work. A slow smile creases Wraith's face. He turns.」
WRAITH:「Look at this. You never get old, do you? The two men'embrace. There is genuine affection here, the camaraderie of men who have fought together, bled together. WRAITH Nobody followed you?」
Logan:「You tryin' to insult me?」
WRAITH:「Can't be too careful, brother. I've been retired five years I still check under the car every time I drive.」
Logan:「I'm looking for Victor Creed. Wraith's face goes serious at the mention of the name. He looks around the gym, making sure no one's watching them. He glances at the boxers in the ring, who lean on the ropes and breathe heavily, awaiting instructions.」
WRAITH:「Why don't you two get a manicure or something and meet me back here in the morning. (to Logan) Want a beer?」
Logan:「Always.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) Wraith leads Logan toward an office in the back, draping an arm around his shoulders.
WRAITH:「I love you like a brother. So I'm giving you thirty minutes. After that, you're too dangerous to know.」
narrator:INT. WRAITH'S OFFICE - NIGHT
 The windows in the office look out on the training boxers. Wraith leads Logan inside and grabs two longneck bottles of beer from a mini-fridge.
WRAITH:「What I hear, our friend the Colonel's got eyes all over the country looking for you. He ain't about to let Weapon X go rogue on him. Wraith pops the caps off the beer bottles and hands one to Logan.」
Logan:「What's Weapon X? They tap glass.」
WRAITH:「You are. A walking, talking, hundred-million dollar experiment.」
Logan:「You know about it. Wraith sits behind his desk and puts his boots up. Logan sits across from him.」
WRAITH:「I keep my ear to the ground. People like us, we never really quit the game.」
Logan:「I did. Woke up one day and knew I was done. Logan peels the label from his bottle of beer. f CONTTNTTFT) )」

narrator:CONTINUED: LOGAN Stryker used to give me a new name every Monday. And by the end of the week, I'd draw a line through it.
 BEAT) I .put a whole lot of people under the ground. And one day I realized... Stryker was never gonna run out of names. Wraith nods, meditative.
WRAITH:「Our friend the Colonel has big plans.」
Logan:「What kind of plans?」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2)
Logan:「Creed did government work?」
WRAITH:「Till they got wise to him. Wherever he went there was a trail of bodies. And not always the right bodies, you know what I'm saying? There is murder in Logan's eyes.」
Logan:「Help me find him.」
WRAITH:「He's a hard cat to track.」
Logan:「Just tell me where to start looking. I'll do the rest. Wraith taps the bottleneck, considering.」
WRAITH:「Might want to talk to his friends from the ultramax.」
Logan:「The prison he busted out of?」
narrator:WRAITH
 NODDING) Feds built it to hold the baddest of the bad mutants. Worked pretty well. Only problem-- now they all know each other.
 BEAT) You ever hear of a guy named Fred J. Dukes?
Logan:「Nope.」
WRAITH:「People call him the Blob. You find him, you'll know why. Got out of the hoosegow a few months ago. Went home to Iowa. Town called Elgin.」
Logan:「You think he's still in touch with Creed? f C_ONTTNTIRT)1」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 STOCK BOY #1 Dude... The stock boy peeks around the divider. FRED J. DUKES, a.k.a., THE BLOB, stands in the center of the aisle, tearing open bags of pork rinds and pouring them down his gullet. Dukes is the biggest man you've ever seen. By a long shot. Just shy of seven feet tall and weighing in at half a ton, he's beyond fat. Beyond obese. His eyes look like pinpricks in the swollen enormity of his face. When he shifts his bulk, ripples cascade down his flanks, his flesh trembling with each breath.
Logan:「O.S.) Jesus, Dukes... Dukes, mouth and chin dusted with fried pork skin, turns his head to examine the pest standing next to him. LOGAN Maybe it's time to give the pork rinds a rest. Dukes swings his arm. Despite his enormous mass, the man moves with surprising speed. Not quick enough to catch Logan, though, who ducks beneath the blow. Dukes's forearm, thicker than a fire hydrant, smashes through the steel shelving. Bags of pork rinds and potato chips tumble to the floor. Snikt! Logan shows his glittering claws to the big man. LOGAN I'll fillet you standing, fat man. That what you want? Dukes hesitates. That is not what he wants., LOGAN .Where's Victor Creed? Dukes grunts and bulls forward, toppling the heavily-laden shelves into the next aisle. Panicked SHOPPERS scream and run for the exits. Dukes blasts through the cereal aisle, too, with a great rending of steel, his giant shoes crushing boxes of Lucky Charms as he stomps into the produce section. CONPTNi)F.T)1」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) A coconut bounces off Dukes's head. Enraged, the giant turns and sees Logan standing by a pile of hairy coconuts, tossing one in his hand like a baseball. LOGAN You're gonna help me, bub. You_just don't know it yet. Dukes bellows and runs at Logan. A coconut pelts him in the face, angering him further. Logan jumps out of the way as Dukes brings down his massive fists. Coconuts explode. Dukes charges after Logan, shattering watermelons, stacked grapefruits, clusters of bananas. After a thirty second rampage Dukes is exhausted, his giant chest heaving as he gasps for air, his hands and face splattered with remnants of crushed fruit. Logan jumps onto Dukes' back. The fat man roars and spins around, trying to buck the little rider, but Logan's got one arm wrapped around Dukes' throat and he's not letting go. The spinning makes Dukes a little dizzy and he slows down. Three adamantium claws shine in the big fellow's face, reflecting the overhead fluorescent lights. Dukes quits, his massive shoulders slumping. He sinks to his knees, his great bulk splitting the linoleum floor. Logan presses his claws against Dukes' quivering jowls. LOGAN Where's Creed?
 FRED J. DUKES How the hell would I know?
Logan:「Come on, he's your friend. When was the last time you talked to him?」

narrator:FRED J. DUKES Friend? He don't have any friends. All he's got is victims.
Logan:「Careful, Dukes. I can smell a lie before you even tell it. The Blob begins to cry, the great bellows of his cheeks trembling, tears and snot dribbling down his face.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (3)
 FRED J. DUKES I'm not lying! I don't know where he is. Logan pulls a handkerchief out of his back pocket and hands it to Dukes.
Logan:「All right, take it easy. Dukes blows his nose into the handkerchief, one of history's loudest and most violent nasal ejaculations. He offers back the soiled handkerchief. Logan waves it off. LOGAN It's a gift. Dukes takes a deep breath, gathering himself.」
narrator:FRED J. DUKES You ever been to Superior?
Logan:「The club for mutants? Down in New Orleans?」
narrator:FRED J. DUKES Creed likes to party down there. Talked about it all the time-- how hot the girlies were. That's all I know. Logan shaves Dukes' jaw with the edge of his claw.
Logan:「Nah. You know more than that. Dukes tilts his face, trying to keep his face from getting scraped off.」
narrator:FRED J. DUKES Joint's owned by a guy named Barbarus. Shared a cell with Creed in the ultramax. Anyone knows where to find him, it's Barbarus. Logan stares into the Blob's face, gauging the man's words.

Logan:「He better be there, Freddie. And he better know something good.」

narrator:CONTINUED: He shoves the claw straight through his left palm, retracts the blade, and shows his wounded palm to the bouncer. The bouncer sees the wound heal and opens the door. BOUNCER Welcome home, brother.
 INT. CLUB SUPERIOR - MOMENTS LATER
 The dimly-lit club is the size of a warehouse and jammed with PARTYING MUTANTS. Most of them look like normal humans but a few are "overts," distinguished by curling horns, scaled skin and other genetic abnormalities. A sexy WAITRESS walks by with a tray of drinks. She winks at Logan. A "Kiss Me, I'm a Mutant" button is pinned to her shirt. Industrial beats pour out of speakers bolted to the ceilings. Logan surveys the room. A young PUSHER approaches, his long sideburns shaved into scimitars running down his jawline.
 PUSHER You lookin' for help, man? Ups, downs, in-betweens. What you need?
Logan:「Wild roses for the moon.」
narrator:PUSHER Wild roses... That some new hash out of Amsterdam?
Logan:「Something like that. You seen my buddy Barbarus? The dealer points toward a staircase at the back of the club.」
narrator:PUSHER VIP room. But hold up,bro,.I got what you're looking for.

Logan:「Trust me, bub-- you don't. Logan heads for the staircase.」

narrator:INT. CLUB SUPERIOR, SECOND FLOOR - NIGHT
 Logan tries to enter the VIP room but a muscle-bound SKINHEAD with Mutant Power brands on his biceps blocks his path.
 SKINHEAD Private party.
Logan:「I'm on the list. Logan. The skinhead raises his clipboard and examines the list.」
narrator:SKINHEAD Last name? Logan's fist splits the clipboard and crushes the skinhead's nose. The muscle-bound brute slumps to the floor, unconscious. Logan steps over him and into the VIP room.
Logan:「Unknown.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
Logan:「I came back. Where is he?」
BARBARUS:「Somewhere in America. Doing what he does best.」
Logan:「What's that?」
BARBARUS:「Putting people's insides on the outside.」
Logan:「He's killing mutants, bub. Barbarus smiles, twenty fingers drumming on the table top.」
BARBARUS:「Some mutants need killing.」

Logan:「You got that right. Snikt! Barbarus shoves his girlfriend out of the way and stands, unsheathing three more black commando knives from his belt. The other MUTANTS quiet down, watching the fireworks. Barbarus swings, the four knives whistling through the air. Logan ducks under them and continues to bob and weave as Barbarus advances behind a whirlwhind of black steel. Logan slashes and one severed hand falls to the ground. Barbarus howls, stabbing at Logan with his three good arms. Logan's claws flash through the air again, and another neatly severed hand lands on the table. Logan retracts his claws and curls one finger: come at me. Barbarus, shamed and furious, gathers himself and charges. Logan times his punch perfectly, pivoting on the ball of his foot and hitting Barbarus with an uppercut that sounds like a well-hit baseball. Barbarus crashes to the floor. Pantera hisses and pounces at Logan, her black claws aimed at his face. Logan backhands her. She hits the floor and slides across the hardwood. C_nWTTAATFT)」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) Logan kneels beside Barbarus. LOGAN You want to keep your other hands? Where is he? Blood dribbles from Barbarus's lip. He spits out a tooth.
BARBARUS:「He don't sent me postcards.」
Logan:「No? Way I hear it, you two were practically boyfriends before he busted out.」
BARBARUS:「Busted out?」
narrator:LAUGHING) You been misinformed. Victor Creed got himself a government pardon. Some fellas from the Department of Agriculture came and picked him up.
Logan:「You're lying to me. Barbarus grins, his teeth red from the blood in his mouth.」

narrator:INT. HINES' HOUSE - NIGHT
 Carol Hines, the Army surgeon last seen in Alkali Lake, unlocks her front door and steps inside her house. she looks exhausted, with deep circles under her eyes. She puts her keys and the mail on a table by the door and then looks up, startled, when she hears SHRIEKING. Hines, very nervous, advances into the dark kitchen. She flicks on the lights. A red kettle on the stove top whistles. A mug waits on the counter. Hines, mystified, turns off the burner.
Logan:「V.0.) Pour yourself a cup of tea. Hines spins around. Logan sits at the kitchen table, an unlit cigar in his mouth. LOGAN It's gonna be a long night.」
narrator:INT. HINES' HOUSE - LATER
 They both sit at the kitchen table now. Logan smokes his cigar and watches Hines, who clutches her mug of tea with trembling hands. Logan watches her through the haze of smoke.
Logan:「Careful, Doc. I can smell a lie. I can hear it. Maybe you start to sweat a little bit. Maybe the pitch of your voice changes. But I'll know.」
narrator:BEAT) Tell me about Creed. Hines opens her mouth, closes it, opens it again.

HINES:「I can't. Please... you don't know what they'll do to me.」
Logan:「Nope. But I know exactly what I'll do to you. (rnNTTNT1FT) I」

narrator:CONTINUED: Hines stares at Logan and he stares back.
HINES:「I don't believe you. You're different than they are. You wouldn't hurt an innocent person.」
Logan:「You're not innocent, Doc. He leans forward, forearms on the tabletop. LOGAN What does Victor Creed have to do with the Weapon X program?」
HINES:「It's not the Weapon X program, it's the Weapon Ultra program. Started sixty-five years ago. They've been trying to make the perfect soldier for a long time. First to fight the Nazis. Then the Communists. Now it's mutants.」
Logan:「So where does Weapon X fit in? Hines closes her eyes and takes a deep breath.」
HINES:「You don't understand. X is a letter but it's also a Roman numeral. Weapon "Ex" is a nickname. Officially, you're Weapon Ten.」
narrator:BEAT) Victor Creed is Weapon Nine. Hines watches him, unsure how he'll react. HINES Both of you are experiments... prototypes. The final product is almost ready. Weapon Eleven. Logan's face darkens as the extent of his betrayal becomes clear to him.
Logan:「Creed works for Stryker. Hines nods. I CONTTNi]RM」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) LOGAN Be ordered it. He ordered Creed to kill her. Hines can see Logan's mounting fury. She holds up her hands.
HINES:「I don't know about anyone getting killed. I'm just a scientist. I work in a lab sixteen hours a day.」
Logan:「Just following orders, huh?」
HINES:「He was your commanding officer for years. How many people did you kill on his orders? Logan stares at her for a long count. she stares back, terrified but resolute.」
Logan:「All this time I been hunting Creed, and he's just a puppet. It's Stryker pulling the strings. He stubs out his cigar on the breakfast table. LOGAN You ready to stop following orders?」

narrator:CONTINUED: He signals to a second SENTRY standing inside the guard house, who hits a button. The steel gate rolls open and Hines drives into the compound.
 EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
 Hines steps out of her parked car and looks around. No one is in the immediate vicinity.
HINES:「It's safe. Logan crawls out from the underbody, where he had been clinging. He dusts himself off.」
Logan:「Were you aiming for every speed bump in the state?」
HINES:「Sorry about that. Now what?」
Logan:「We find a uniform that fits. A well-built SERGEANT walks toward his vehicle, paging through requisition papers on a clipboard. LOGAN That ought to work.」

HINES:「You have some blood on your shirt. Logan sees the drops of blood and tries to blot them out.」
Logan:「I barely hit the guy. They don't notice as a small security camera near the entrance pivots, its black eye watching the intruders. (C'ONTTNI]F.n )」

narrator:CONTINUED: Hines, very nervous, tries to keep her composure. Logan puts a hand on her shoulder-- partly to steady her nerves, partly to keep pushing her forward. LOGAN Time to visit the Colonel.
 INT. WEAPONS ENGINEERING CENTER - DAY
 Hines and Logan walk down a long corridor. Several SOLDIERS and SCIENTISTS walk by, most of them ignoring the pair. One young scientist in a lab coat hurries past, nodding at Hines.
 YOUNG SCIENTIST Lieutenant.
 HINES
 NODDING) Murphy. Hines waits till Murphy passes. She stops in front of a locked door and allows a laser scanner to read her retina. The door slides open. Logan looks through the open doorway, his nostrils flaring. He looks primed for homicide.
Logan:「I can smell him. He walks through the door. Hines checks to see if the coast is clear.and follows him. Neither notices the security camera mounted on the ceiling, swiveling to track their movement.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) Logan stops beside one tank and looks at the man inside, who floats in his chemical sleep. His eyes widen when he realizes what he's looking at.
Logan:「It's Creed... He looks inside another tank. Same cruel face, same powerful body. Only their shaved heads distinguish them from Victor Creed. LOGAN They're all Creed.」
HINES:「Stryker's most successful mutant hunter. They cloned him years ago.」
narrator:BEAT) The Colonel's been planning this for a long time. _ Logan walks through the midst of this vast, sleeping army, surrounded by ten thousand replicas of his worst enemy.
Logan:「They get into the world, it's genocide.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (3)
Logan:「Don't follow me. Hines stops, standing alone in the middle of the Eleven.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
VICTOR CREED:「Man's got a hard head.」
narrator:STRYKER
 STANDING) Let's go. He'll only be out for a couple minutes. Creed tosses aside the bat and lifts Logan onto his shoulders as easily as a normal man would lift a child of six. He carries Logan out of the room, winking at Kayla.
 INT. RE-EDUCATION CHAMBER, ALKALI LAKE - DAY
 Logan, still unconscious, sits on a chair that looks far too similar to an electric chair, his arms and legs bound with titanium manacles that prevent any movement. The room looks like an execution chamber, complete with a viewing window. He opens his eyes and blinks in the bright light. Stryker and Creed stand in front of him but Logan doesn't look at them. Dr. Cornelius and an ASSISTANT stand near a machine that is wired to the electric chair, fiddling with the controls, but Logan doesn't look at them, either. He stares at Kayla, who cannot meet his eyes.
Logan:「Who are you?」
KAYLA:「very quiet) You know who I am.」
Logan:「No I don't.」

STRYKER:「She's real, old friend. Your eyes are telling you. Your ears. Your nose. Logan ignores Stryker, staring at the love of his life.」
Logan:「You're dead.」

narrator:I
Logan:「Why? I」
narrator:KAYLA - Same as Victor. Stryker gave me a I choice: spend the rest of my life in prison or come work for him.
Logan:「Prison... Kayla finally raises her head-and looks directly at Logan.」
KAYLA:「Shot my Daddy when I was eighteen. Big mistake. Should have shot him when I was seventeen.」
Logan:「You told me he died of a heart attack.」
KAYLA:「Maybe he had a heart attack after I shot him. Sat there and watched him bleed. After what that man did to me, I wish he died slower. Logan stares at her for a long time. KAYLA That sweet little girl you lived with in the cabin? That was all make-believe.」
Logan:「You loved me. I know you loved me. Kayla blinks and looks away.」
KAYLA:「I'm a good actress.」
Logan:「No one's that good. (C ONTTN1TF.f )」

narrator:CONTINUED:
STRYKER:「Everybody's a sucker for something. Figuring out what it is, that's the trick. For you, it's a woman's love. An easy weakness to forgive. But still a weakness. Stryker signals to Cornelius. The doctor and his assistant attach a nasty-looking copper halo to Logan's skull. The halo is wired to the electric chair. Logan never takes his eyes off Silverfox. STRYKER Don't be angry at her. She was just serving her country, keeping the mutant menace in check. She and victor have been a real credit to their race. It takes Logan a moment to understand this comment.」
Logan:「You're a mutant?」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) Dr. Cornelius finishes calibrating his machine and adjusting the halo brace.
CORNELIUS:「We're good to go.」
STRYKER:「So, Logan... The truth is, you're a real pain in the ass. But we've invested far too much time and treasure to terminate you. We're starting over. Cornelius checks the digital gauges on the machine.」
CORNELIUS:「If I've calibrated correctly, we'll leave intact the hard-wired functions, walking and talking, all that good stuff.」
VICTOR CREED:「You mean I don't get to potty train him?」
CORNELIUS:「But every memory you've ever had will evaporate. Just like it never happened. Logan never takes his eyes off Kayla, his personal Judas.」
Logan:「Good.」
STRYKER:「to Cornelius) Let me know when he's clean. I have to look in on our other guest. Stryker exits the room, followed by Victor.」

Logan:「to Kayla) That story you told me... about the guy who goes to get flowers for the Moon. I can't get it out of my head. Except I had it all backwards. I thought you were the moon and I was your Wolverine. But you're the Trickster, aren't you?」

narrator:CONTINUED: (3) LOGAN And I'm just a schmuck who got played. Kayla is silent for a moment.
KAYLA:「My mother told me that story. She takes a deep breath and turns to go. KAYLA It doesn't matter. You won't remember any of this.」
Logan:「You didn't trick me into loving you.」
KAYLA:「What?」
Logan:「The last two months, you weren't playing around in my skull. You weren't using. your powers on me. I thought you were dead and I loved you more than ever. Maybe it makes you feel better to think it was all fake. But it was never fake for me. Kayla lowers her eyes.」
KAYLA:「You don't know where I come from. You don't know what it was like.」
Logan:「I know exactly what is was like. I come from there too.」
KAYLA:「I didn't have a choice.」
Logan:「Course you did. You still do. Kayla stares down at Logan. The tenderness returns to her face. She could free him right now if she wanted. The moment passes and Kayla shakes her head.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (4)
Logan:「Yeah, you keep saying that. (to Cornelius) Come on. Turn on the juice. Let's get this over with.」

narrator:CONTINUED: Hines looks like she might be sick very soon. Kayla steps into the doorway. STRYKER Victor thinks the Turks were soft, letting the rats do the dirty work. He's looking forward to spending your last night with you.
HINES:「Please, Colonel-- Stryker pats Hines on the cheek and nods to Victor.」
STRYKER:「Enjoy yourself.」
HINES:「Please don't do this... Please! Victor drags the screaming Hines off of her cot. Kayla watches with growing unease but Stryker smiles and- waves goodbye as he turns the key that shuts the cell door.」
narrator:INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER, ALKALI LAKE - DAY
 Logan sits in his electric chair, staring straight ahead, preparing himself for the pain.
 INT. VIEWING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
 Cornelius stands behind the glass viewing window with his ASSISTANT. He puts his hand on a red switch.
 INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER, ALKALI LAKE - CONTINUOUS
 Thousands of volts surge into Logan's skull, forcing his body to arch. After several seconds the power shuts off. Tendrils of white smoke rise from the copper halo. Logan opens his eyes and stares at Cornelius.
Logan:「That all you got?」

narrator:CONTINUED:
KAYLA:「You two have always hated each other. You should fight. The assistant blinks and begins to scowl, turning toward Cornelius just in time to get punched in the mouth. The two men brawl on the floor with the lack of skill you'd expect from two scientists.」
narrator:INT. RE-EDUCATION CENTER - MOMENTS LATER
 Kayla steps into the room. Logan sits slumped motionless in the electric chair. She detaches the copper halo. The skin beneath the metal is singed but it quickly begins to heal. Kayla stares at the man she betrayed, hesitates for a moment and exhales. She unfastens the titanium manacles. Logan is still unconscious. Kayla shakes him gently.
KAYLA:「Hey. Wake up. Logan opens his eyes. He is clearly disoriented, as if waking from a long coma. He stares up at Kayla. KAYLA Are you okay? Logan stares at her, groggy and confused. KAYLA Do you understand what I'm saying?」
narrator:BEAT) Do you remember me? In one blinding motion, Logan snatches Kayla by the throat and roughly pulls her to him. She does not resist.
Logan:「I would have done anything for you.」
KAYLA:「Please...」

Logan:「Do you hear me? Anything. (r0NTTNTTF.T)1」

narrator:CONTINUED:
KAYLA:「Please... Creed's killing your friend.」
narrator:INT. HOLDING CELL - DAY
 Victor Creed holds Hines against the cell wall with one hand. Her feet kick in the air as she struggles. He splits her blouse down the middle with a long black talon.
VICTOR CREED:「I've always had a thing for human chicks. You're all so soft and helpless.」
HINES:「No...」
VICTOR CREED:「Maybe it's time I did a little surgery on you, Doctor.」
Logan:「O.S.) The woman said no. Creed turns his head and sees Logan and Kayla standing in the doorway. He grins and tosses Hines aside. She crashes into the wall and slides to the floor, dazed.」
VICTOR CREED:「to Logan) Starting to think you're addicted to pain. You keep coming back for more. Snikt !」
Logan:「This is the end.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
VICTOR CREED:「A little late for the Mutant Power crap. We hunt freaks for the man. That's why we're free.」
KAYLA:「What's he gonna do with us when the other mutants are dead? Put us in a zoo? Creed hesitates, considering the logic of her words. A fanged smile splits his face.」
VICTOR CREED:「Don't try your head games on me. I've gutted better telepaths than you. Creed rears back to hammer Kayla, a blow that would separate her head from her body. Logan catches Creed's fist inches from Kayla's face.」
Logan:「Time you quit picking on girls.」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 LEAD TECHNICIAN We can't rush them,.sir. They've been in stasis for--
STRYKER:「I want them ready! The Lead Technician flinches and barks orders to his subordinates, who enter commands into their computers. The lids of ten thousand isolation tanks slide open. As the camera roams among the Eleven, needles and hoses detach from their bodies, releasing their metallic grip. The cloned Creeds begin to stir in their stainless steel coffins.」
narrator:CUT TO: Creed pounces on Logan, who is still severely injured from the fall. Creed tears into the smaller man mercilessly, slinging him around the cavern, gouging him with his black talons. Creed batters Logan with a series of savage blows. Logan falls, his healing factor overwhelmed, barely conscious. Creed plants one heavy black boot on Logan's face and presses down hard. He leers at his defeated foe.
VICTOR CREED:「Your pal Wraith pissed all over my boots when I crushed his spine. Smell like fear, don't they? Something changes within Logan, a fury so overwhelming it cannot be contained, a rage so vast it could only be called berserker. .Logan rolls toward his tormentor, sweeping his claws straight through Creed's ankle, severing the foot. Creed screams and falls to his knees. Logan stands, grabbing a handful of Creed's dirty blonde hair.」
Logan:「This is for the ones who couldn't fight back.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2) The adamantium blades are a silver blur in the overhead light.
 CUT TO: Stryker, standing on the podium, sees his chief henchman's head tumble from his shoulders. He grits his teeth and surveys his army. Ten thousand enhanced warriors begin to step out of their steel coffins, baring their fangs, eyeing their surroundings.
STRYKER:「to the Lead Technician) Activate the PA system. The Lead Technicians flips a switch. Stryker speaks into a microphone; his voice booms from speakers mounted on the pillars throughout the cavern. STRYKER (c.ont'd) Soldiers! The Eleven snap to attention with machined synchronicity, all ten thousand facing Stryker.」
narrator:CUT TO: Logan, bloodied but healing, stares down at his fallen enemy.
KAYLA:「O.S.) Logan! Kayla runs down one of the steel staircases that clings to the cavern wall like fire escapes. KAYLA If we get closer to Stryker, I can work my magic. Logan stares at Stryker, his true enemy, the.man who destroyed his life. Ten thousand clones. encircle Stryker, who stands on the raised podium in the cavern's center.」
Logan:「I don't want him hypnotized. I want him dead. Never taking his eyes off his enemy, Logan advances.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (3) Stryker sees Logan walking toward him, toward the hordes of clones. Stryker shakes his head and smiles.
STRYKER:「The man's committing suicide. He leans into the microphone. The Eleven listen to their commander's voice, amplified by hundreds of speakers STRYKER No army that ever marched could stand against you! You will never abandon your mission, and your mission is simple! Kill the mutants! Kill them wherever you find them! Stryker points at Logan. STRYKER」
narrator:THIS IS YOUR FIRST ENEMY! Ten thousand cloned murderers turn on Logan, soulless black eyes focusing on their target. Logan stops his march beside one of the massive steel pillars. that supports the cavern ceiling.
Logan:「to Kayla) Get the hell out of here.」
KAYLA:「What are you doing?」
Logan:「Bringin' down the house. He sweeps his claws clean through the pillar, at an angle. The uppermost section shears off and drills into the floor with a concussive whump that spiderwebs the concrete for thirty feet around the impact site. Stryker realizes what Logan is doing.」

narrator:EXT. ALKALI LAKE - DAY
 The compound has essentially imploded, the major structures falling into the massive pit created by the cavern's collapse. Severed gas lines and ruptured boilers have turned the crater into a raging fire pit. Smoke billows up from the molten core. A few dazed survivors, SOLDIERS and SCIENTISTS, have escaped the carnage, but Alkali Lake no longer exists as a military base. Thousands of singed documents flutter in the wind. Logan and Kayla walk away from the burning crater, never looking back. They head through the woods toward the lake that glitters in the sunlight.
KAYLA:「One of them could have survived. Logan glances at her. KAYLA The clones. They've got your healing factor. Logan looks back at the devastation.」
Logan:「Unless someone comes along who can move a few million tons of steel, they ain't going anywhere.」
narrator:EXT. ALKALI LAKE - LATER
 They stop at the edge of the lake. Paper from the destroyed base drifts through the air, falling on the water and the shore.
Logan:「Almost looks peaceful from here.」
