narration:Charlotte is kissing a guy at Lux .
Charlotte:「How dare he walk out on me ? I 'm a goddess .」
Guy:「Yes , you are .」
Charlotte:「I think I deserve a modicum of respect .」
Guy:「I respect you .」
Charlotte:「Then why did my son abandon me ?」
Guy:「Wait , we 're talking about your son ?」
Charlotte:「Do you know that I went to Hell for him ? I even helped save his scrawny , little human , who I much prefer dead .」
Guy:「This is getting weird .」
Charlotte:「Yeah . It 's been two weeks and no word . I mean , a mother has needs , do n't you agree ?」
Guy:「Okay , uh ... I got to go .」
Charlotte:「You 're a terrible kisser . The guy is left . Make comes to speak with Charlotte .」
Maze:「Must suck to be on the outs with Lucifer . He hates it when people manipulate him .」
Charlotte:「I did n't . At least not like his Father .」
Maze:「True , but you 're here . And the big guy 's not . I bet Lucifer is plotting his revenge as we speak . Lucifer is in an office , negotiating something .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Love the vibe you got going here . It 's very Godfather . You even look a bit like Brando . Circa the barefoot , stress - eating years .」

Godfather:「This is a big move , man . Are you sure about this ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , yes . Now hand it over .」
Godfather:「It 's not gon na go cheap . Lucifer puts a bag full of money on the desk .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Worth every penny .」
Godfather:「It 's your funeral . The Godfather opens the suitcase on his desk . Chloe and Daniel are walking in the street .」
Daniel:「Still no sign of Lucifer ?」
Chloe:「I went by his place . It 's completely packed up ... No e - mails , no calls , nothing . He 's gone . Just ... it is what it is .」
Daniel:「You know , Chloe , you do n't have to pretend with me . I know you 're upset . I mean , he 's your partner , he should 've told you he was leaving .」
Chloe:「Whatever . It 's been two weeks . I 'm over it . Please just change the subject . Daniel and Chloe are joining Ella on a crime scene .」
Ella:「Man , I miss Lucifer . He was the best hugger . I mean , squirmer on the outside , but warm and fuzzy on the inside .」
Daniel:「Ella . Do you mind ?」

Ella:「Oh . Sorry , Decker . Guess he has n't called you either . Amenadiel is watching over Chloe .
 So we got Ash Corrigan . 27 . Cause of death , blunt trauma , by something that left small circular gashes around the wound . M.E. 's gon na make me some molds so I can track down the murder weapon .」
Daniel:「Well , it does n't look like a robbery . I mean , guy 's wallet and ID has n't been touched . His car 's still here . I 'm thinking Ash was a club - goer . Got into a bar fight , then everything went to head out here .」
Chloe:「Hmm . I think he played in a band .」
Ella:「Calloused fingers . Guitar player . Good catch .」
Chloe:「Well , yeah . And this . Looks like the band lost their front man . Chloe and Daniel are interviewing the members of the band .」
Marla:「I ca n't believe he 's gone . We were in such a good place .」
Doug Kennedy:「The album was selling , man . Tour was gon na be huge .」
Black:「This blows so hard . What 's gon na happen to us ?」
Marla:「Come on , dude , Ash is dead .」
Doug Kennedy:「He 's just saying what we 're all thinking . The band 's over . We 're screwed .」
Chloe:「So Ash was staying here ?」
Black:「He was just crashing on the couch last couple weeks .」
Daniel:「You guys were n't worried when he did n't come home last night ?」
Doug Kennedy:「We just figured that he hooked up with someone . I hoped , anyway .」
Marla:「He 's been in a funk since his divorce . It was bad .」
Chloe:「How bad ?」
Marla:「You should talk to Courtney . Ash 's ex . She 's , um ... Very passionate . They fought non - stop , even got violent once . Chloe and Daniel are arriving at the station . So the band was right , the ex - wife was violent . Look at these .」
Daniel:「She was arrested for domestic abuse two years ago . I mean , charges were dropped , but ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Detective !」

Chloe:「You 're okay .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? Yes , of course I 'm okay . Do n't be so silly .」
Chloe:「Lucifer , I was really , really worried about you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Shh ! Hold that thought . I have news .」
Chloe:「What ... Wow . You just ... You go AWOL for two weeks , and then you have the nerve to come here and shush me ?」
Daniel:「Yeah . You have some serious explaining to do , man .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I know that , Daniel , and I 'm about to . Shall we all have a sit down ?」
Chloe:「No . Spill it . I 'm dying to know where you 've been .」
Candy:「Lucifer ? A blond girl gets down from the stairs .
 Lucifer ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh ... Candy , darling , I told you to wait in the car .」
Candy:「But it 's so stuffy in there .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But it 's a convertible .」
Candy:「Plus I wanted to show your police friends just how generous my honey is . Candy shows everybody her wedding ring .
 He paid that sketchy diamond guy a ginormous pile of cash for it .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , mm .」
Chloe:「Lucifer , who is this ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Meet Candy Morningstar ... My wife .」
Daniel:「Wow . Lucifer and Chloe are talking about Lucifer 's wedding .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It 's not how I 'd hoped to announce it . I know it might be a tad surprising .」
Chloe:「No , why would I be surprised ? That you disappeared after I almost died , and then waltzed back in married to a stripper ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Exotic dancer , but , yes , I can explain .」
Chloe:「No . No need . I 'm happy for you . Really . Do you mind ? Candy is playing with something which makes noise .」
Candy:「Sorry . Am I bugging you ? I 'm totally bugging you .」
Chloe:「No , I love that sound .」
Candy:「Oh .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Look , Detective , I had some family issues . And I - I went to Vegas to blow off some steam . One thing led to another , and ... Look , I am sorry , I should 've told you that I needed ... Time off .」

Chloe:「This is n't about vacation hours , this is n't about time cards , Lucifer , this ... How could you just ... ? I thought we were ... I thought we were friends .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Friends ? Yes . Friends , that 's exactly what we are . Just friends .」
Chloe:「Right .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . So it 's all sorted then , we 'll go back to the way it was .」
Chloe:「Great .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You know , before ...」
Chloe:「Yes , I get it !」
Daniel:「Hey .」
Chloe:「What ?」
Daniel:「I have Ash 's ex - wife in interrogation .」
Chloe:「Great . Chloe walks away .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ...」
Daniel:「That 's classy , dude . Real classy .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Thank you ?」
Candy:「You think they like me ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , what 's not to like ? Chloe is interviewing Courtney in the interrogation room .」

Chloe:「" Violent psycho bitch . Sid and Nancy , except she 's Sid . All she wanted was to crush Ash 's soul . " So , Courtney , care to explain why all of your ex - husband 's bandmates think you 're capable of murder ?」
Courtney:「I had nothing to do with this .」
Chloe:「Where were you the night of Ash 's death ?」
Courtney:「The same place I am every night」
Chloe:「What do you do ?」
Courtney:「Run an online clothing company . Built it from scratch . Worked my ass off . You want to know what Ash would say about work ? " The world will provide . " But you know who did ? Me . Someone had to be responsible . The band , they thought I was uncool , but it was Ash , he was the selfish , childish one .」
Chloe:「I completely understand . I was with an immature partner , and it was maddening .」
Courtney:「It 's crazy - making .」
Chloe:「Yeah , wanted to kill him .」
Courtney:「I did n't say that . Daniel and Lucifer are looking at Chloe and Courtney since the observation room .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ouch . Shade . I would n't take it too personally .」

Daniel:「Yeah , right . I 'm sure it 's not me she 's talking about .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , who else would she be talking about ? Chloe continues to ask Courtney .」
Chloe:「So , you want to explain the domestic abuse charge ?」
Courtney:「Look , we fought ... I 'm not proud of that . But I 've paid for my mistakes , literally .」
Chloe:「What do you mean ?」
Courtney:「Ash took everything when we divorced . I agreed to sit down with a divorce mediator , and the guy was completely biased against me . I think him and Ash set up some sort of shady side deal . He 's the real criminal .」
Chloe:「But if Ash got this hefty divorce settlement , then why was he couch - surfing ? Where 'd the money go ?」
Courtney:「Maybe the mediator took it ? Like I said , the guy 's a crook . Amenadiel and Charlotte are looking for Lucifer 's new on line .」
Amenadiel:「I got him . Someone tagged Lucifer at The Grove .」
Charlotte:「You 're kidding .」
Amenadiel:「Someone named " Cottoncandy86 " ?」
Charlotte:「That 's an unfortunate name .」

Amenadiel:「No , Mom , it 's an Internet ... Never mind . It looks like they were getting frozen yogurt to celebrate ... Newlywed life ? # mrslucifer , # hottiehubby ?」
Charlotte:「Are you speaking in tongues ?」
Amenadiel:「Mom ! Look . He and cottoncandy86 are married .」
Charlotte:「What ? !」
Amenadiel:「He specifically told me to watch over Chloe . After everything that we did to save her , I do n't ... I do n't understand .」
Charlotte:「Betrothing himself to that ? He would n't . Perhaps Mazikeen was right . Lucifer 's concocting a plan . Daniel and Chloe are talking about the clues .」
Daniel:「Well , Courtney 's story checked out . She was working late with two employees at the time Ash was killed .」
Chloe:「Courtney 's been pointing pretty hard at their divorce mediator , but I do n't know . Seems like a stretch .」
Daniel:「Yeah , agreed , but I did check it out anyways . This guy named Anthony Annan . He 's got a clean record , and nothing but Courtney 's word points to him .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , Detective , a word ?」

Chloe:「You 're still here ? Should n't you be on some honeymoon far , far away ?」
Candy:「Oh , look , it 's Mannequin Hair .」
Daniel:「Who ?」
Candy:「I do n't know his name , but he 's in the other photo , too . Is that weird ?」
Chloe:「What other photo ?」
Candy:「The one of the dead dude . See ? Right there . Mannequin Hair is in the crowd behind the yellow tape .」
Daniel:「She 's right , it 's him .」
Chloe:「Unbelievable .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It 's highly unlikely for Ash 's divorce mediator to be lurking at the scene of his murder , yes ?」
Daniel:「Yeah , very . I 'll track him down . Nice .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well done , Candy .」
Candy:「Well , I do n't get a lot of names at my job , so I 'm super good with faces ... And other things .」
Chloe:「Ah .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「This is fun , is n't it ? Is n't this fun ? Hmm ? Murder , suspects , clues . Gosh , it feels good to be back . Right , I 'm going to call Candy a cab , and then you and I can get down to brass tacks , yes ? Actually , come to think of it , who watches over Trixie ? Do you want to go splitsies on a nanny ? Besides , I hear this case involves a band , so , lucky for you I bring my much - needed musical expertise .」
Candy:「Did you know he plays piano ? Like , better than Elton Tom .」
Chloe:「I know plenty about music , thank you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Do you , now , Detective ? Right , what 's your favourite band , then ? Hmm ? Lucifer takes Chloe 's phone .」
Chloe:「Hey ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , full of ' 90s jams , I see . The Bangles , N'Sync , Right Said Fred ?」
Chloe:「Give me the phone back .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I mean , seriously , Detective , your music queue alone is enough to disqualify you from this case .」
Chloe:「You 're not the one who 's on this case , Lucifer .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? But what about our partnership ?」
Chloe:「Our partnership ended when you ghosted me and the entire department . You ca n't just march back in here like nothing 's wrong . You ca n't just grab what you want when you want .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'll just put that down there , then .」
Chloe:「You let me down , Lucifer ... I mean , what good is a partner if I ca n't depend on you ? I do n't need you anymore .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , surely you do n't mean that .」
Chloe:「I do . You can go . Both of you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Lucifer and Candy are at Linda 's practice .」
Linda:「I have n't seen you in a while , Lucifer . Uh , I know you 've been through Hell ... I suppose we can discuss that another time .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , no , no , there 's no need for censoring , Doctor . Candy and I have no secrets . Is n't that the key to a successful marriage ?」
Linda:「And how are you coping since your ... Travels ? Any warning signs of lasting trauma ? Denial ? Rash decisions ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Um ... No , no . I think I 've thought through everything quite carefully .」
Candy:「He 's a thinker , this one !」
Linda:「And , uh ... And what about Detective Decker ? I thought you two had become ... Close .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , everything I felt for her was smoke and mirrors , courtesy of dear old Dad . I mean , He clearly expected me to zig , and so I zagged .」
Linda:「And does Chloe know that you 've zagged Candy ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . She just fired me .」
Linda:「Shocking .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I know .」
Linda:「But if you felt so manipulated ... Why return to Chloe at all ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I mean , I tried to leave , but I just felt that I missed ... My work . Look , anyway , baby , bathwater , the Detective and I are quite the crime - fighting duo . I mean , you would n't break up Batman and Robin , now , would you ?」
Candy:「No .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「We have a job to do . So if she could just see sense ...」

Candy:「I was fired once . But you know what I did ? I just kept showing up and made myself expandable .」
Linda:「Oh , uh , do you mean indispensable ?」
Candy:「No . Expandable . I got a boob job , and it totally expanded my horizons . Because then , I could do something none of the other girls could do . You wanna see ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ooh , yes .」
Linda:「No .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No ?」
Linda:「But you know , the part about showing up ... That 's not , actually , bad advice . It 's called " acting as if . "」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . Yes , well done , Candy . I think I know exactly how to get back on the case . Oh , gosh , I wish I 'd talked to you earlier . Saved myself a trip ... Have a candy , Candy . Daniel is on the phone with Chloe .」
Daniel:「Bad news , Chloe . Ash 's mediator wo n't talk . Well , because he 's a lawyer . Yep , not without a warrant . Okay , will do ... Daniel holds off the phone .
 I know you 're there . I 'm a cop , Lucifer . You think I do n't know when I 'm being followed ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「All right , fair enough . Look , I 'm simply here to help with the case .」
Daniel:「What , you mean the case that Chloe kicked you off of ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm just ... I 'm trying to put things back the way they were , Dan .」
Daniel:「Yeah , I 've been there .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . And I have a brilliant idea . Lucifer is talking about the case with Chloe in her apartment .」
Chloe:「You expect me to let you go undercover with your stripper wife ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . First of all , she 's an exotic dancer . " Stripper " is pejorative .」
Chloe:「Well , far be it from me to disrespect your bride .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Thank you . And secondly , Candy is a natural at getting men to talk .」
Chloe:「Oh , I bet she is . Candy puts lipstick on her lips . Maze is watching her but .」
Maze:「Awesome . Lucifer has outdone himself .」
Candy:「Thanks .」
Maze:「Mm - hmm .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「But , Detective , the mediator wo n't talk to you without a warrant . Which is why I so wisely made an appointment for Candy and I this afternoon , see ? You need me .」
Chloe:「Let me think about that . No .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , Detective , if I did n't know better , I 'd say you were prejudiced against exotic dancers .」
Chloe:「Okay , we 're done here . Good - bye .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But ...」
Chloe:「Come on , Candy .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , look , if you change your mind and wish to take me up on this splendid lead , then , you know , you can always text me , or I 'm on Wobble now as well . Chloe pushes Lucifer and Candy outside .You can get Candy on Cottoncandy86 . Lucifer and Candy are coming in the penthouse .It was a marvellous idea . I 'm sure she 'll come around .」
Charlotte:「So it 's true . You 're back .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , invading my privacy , as usual , I see .」
Charlotte:「Your brother and I were worried sick . You could have at least called .」

Candy:「Oh , my gosh , are you Lucifer 's sister ? Oh !」
Charlotte:「Oh , Lucifer , do n't be rude . Who is your top - heavy friend ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Candy , darling , this is my mother ... Mum , this is Candy , my wife . I 'm sorry that we did n't invite you to the wedding . We just decided no enemies .」
Charlotte:「Well , lovely to meet you .」
Candy:「You 're Lucifer 's mom ? Oh , my gosh , you look amazing ! I should start using sunscreen .」
Charlotte:「A shame he kept you hidden . I hate secrets ... Do you like shopping ?」
Candy:「Do I ?」
Charlotte:「I want to hear all about you and Lucifer . You two must have so many plans . Maze asks Chloe about Candy in their apartment .」
Maze:「So ... What do we think of Candy ?」
Chloe:「Well , I think she 's perfect for Lucifer .」
Maze:「Her bra size equals her IQ , huh ?」
Chloe:「That 's generous .」
Maze:「See that vein popping out the side of your neck ? Same thing happens when I throw the dishes in the trash instead of washing them ... You 're mad .」

Chloe:「I 'm an idiot .」
Maze:「Look , I know Lucifer better than anyone , okay , and he does this sometimes . Disappears , does stupid , impulsive things ... But he always comes back around , Chloe .」
Chloe:「Yeah , but this time I do n't want him to . I 'm serious , I am done . I 'm done .」
Maze:「But he did get you an in with that mediator . That 's a good thing , right ?」
Chloe:「Yeah , well , I do n't care . There 's no way I 'm letting him and his exotic - dancer wife on my case , or any case .」
Maze:「Maybe you and Lucifer need a mediator ... Just saying . Chloe and Lucifer have an appointment with the mediator .」
Anthony Annan:「So , Mrs. Morningstar ...」
Chloe:「Oh , no , no , no , no , you can call me Candy .」
Anthony Annan:「Candy . Why do you want to divorce Lucifer ?」
Chloe:「Um ... Well , I just feel like we 're supposed to have a partnership , and it just totally feels like it 's not working anymore .」
Anthony Annan:「Mm - hmm . And you two have been married for ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Five days .」

Chloe:「Ever ! Forever .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Five days . Five days .」
Chloe:「It feels like it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But we 've been through a lot in that time , and I say that we work brilliantly together , do n't we , sweetie ?」
Chloe:「Well ... If you 're talking about the bedroom , yeah . I mean , thank God this bod is made for pure s*x , because , clearly , it 's all he cares about . I 'm tired .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Eh ...」
Anthony Annan:「Would you say that 's the , uh , the crux of your issue ?」
Chloe:「Oh , the crux of the issue ? Oh , no , no , no , that would he Lucifer disappearing , and then popping back up with zero explanation and a ditzy bimbo on his arm .」
Anthony Annan:「He 's cheated on you in five days of marriage ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , of course I did n't . I 've been completely faithful . I take the vows of marriage very seriously .」
Chloe:「And that 's why you chose an idiotic , bedazzled tweener as your partner .」

Anthony Annan:「I 'm sorry , Candy , there 's no name calling in here . Even if it 's to yourself ... Lucifer , would you like to respond ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「This is gon na be hard for you to understand , but ... I 've been through Hell recently . Both figuratively and literally . True torment , my greatest fears realized .」
Chloe:「Lucifer , I am the one who almost died .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I know . That is what I 'm talking about .」
Chloe:「Wow . I almost believe you care .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Have you ever known me to lie ?」
Chloe:「I do n't know ... I do n't know .」
Anthony Annan:「Why do n't we take five ? Chloe is alone . The mediator comes to speak to her .
 Are you okay , Mrs. Morningstar ?」
Chloe:「Yeah , I 'm ... Yeah , thank you . I am . Um ... I , uh , I had heard through a friend that ... You were open to a little extra negotiation .」
Anthony Annan:「Um , I 'm not sure what you mean by that .」

Chloe:「Um , well , my husband , you see , has a lot of money . And so , if you were to ... Swing things my way , then I 'd make it worth your while .」
Anthony Annan:「Wow ... You 're really something . But that would be crossing a line . And I ca n't do things like that .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Why not ? You did with Ash Corrigan .」
Anthony Annan:「You two are in on this together ?」
Chloe:「No , we 're ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , yes .」
Chloe:「LAPD . They come back in the mediator 's office .
 We know about your side deal with Ash Corrigan .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Did n't pilfer enough money from Ash 's ex ? Had to go and kill Ash to get the rest of the spoils ?」
Anthony Annan:「Whoa . I would never , ever hurt Ash .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Then what did you want to accomplish , Anthony ? Hmm ? Come on . Tell me . What did you desire ?」
Anthony Annan:「I wanted ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes ?」
Anthony Annan:「I wanted the Heavy Woolies to be the hugest band ever .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「But ... Oh .」
Anthony Annan:「Um ... Okay , yeah , yes , I helped Ash in the divorce and I got him all of Courtney 's money . But there was no side deal , 'cause I did it for free ... I did it for the band . I did it for the music .」
Chloe:「So , you 're a fan ?」
Anthony Annan:「No , no , no . I was the manager . At least , Ash promised me ... Maybe I could be the manager someday . The point is , I helped them a lot . Ash and I came up with a plan .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Buy all the albums himself using his ex - wife 's money to inflate sales . Talk about self - promotion .」
Anthony Annan:「All they needed was a little nudge . And it worked . I mean , we got on the charts and we started getting radio play , we were gon na be booked for this big tour . I mean , we were gon na make it so big .」
Chloe:「We have a photo linking you to the crime scene . Why were you there ?」
Anthony Annan:「I was looking for them after the gig , 'cause Ash and Marla , they were fighting .」
Chloe:「The bassist ? Why were they fighting ?」

Anthony Annan:「When were n't they fighting ? I thought that Ash was gon na kick Marla out of the band that night after the gig , so I went down there to see how it went down ... That 's when I saw the police standing there , across the street ... Over his dead body . It was the night the music died .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Perhaps Marla did n't want to be the fifth Beatle .」
Chloe:「Looks like we have a new suspect .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , well , if that 's the case , then you 're welcome , Detective . It 's nice to be needed .」
Chloe:「Look , go home . Trust me . Candy needs you more than I do . Candy and Charlotte are talking in the street .」
Candy:「Mine 's bigger , right ?」
Charlotte:「Yes . Does that mean anything ?」
Candy:「Just how much Lucifer loves me .」
Charlotte:「Ah , so these small ones are for couples who do n't really care .」
Candy:「Exactly .」
Charlotte:「Tell me more about you and Lucifer . What comes next for you two lovebirds ? Did he say anything about ... Oh , I do n't know ... Matricide ?」

Candy:「No , I think the mattress in the penthouse is pretty new .」
Charlotte:「Oh , come on , Candy . I know you two have some kind of plan .」
Candy:「Well , you 're right about that . So many plans .」
Charlotte:「Tell me everything .」
Candy:「Someday ... I want to open my own juice bar . Or a tanning salon . Or a combo juice bar and tanning salon .」
Charlotte:「You 're speaking and yet I do n't understand a single word .」
Candy:「I get that a lot . Why do n't you talk and I 'll listen ? I 'm a good listener . Like right now ? I know exactly what you 're trying to say .」
Charlotte:「But I did n't ...」
Candy:「You want what 's best for your son and you 'll do anything to make sure he 's happy . I want you to know , I got Lucifer 's back . And yours ... Because ... You 're my mom now , too ... We 're family . Candy hugs Charlotte . Charlotte is back at her office . Amenadiel is here .」
Charlotte:「She 's a sinister genius .」
Amenadiel:「Mother , come on now .」
Charlotte:「Here I thought this " Candy " was an insipid dullard . But she may be the most formidable opponent I 've ever faced ... I came away with nothing ! Not a single crumb of information about Lucifer 's real agenda .」
Amenadiel:「What if there is no hidden agenda , Mom ?」
Charlotte:「Oh ...」
Amenadiel:「What if this Candy 's exactly who she seems ?」
Charlotte:「Then ... I do n't understand what Lucifer 's doing .」
Amenadiel:「Whatever he wants , as usual .」
Charlotte:「So he really just married this preening mouth breather because he likes her ? Please . Only a deeply damaged soul would make such a poor choice ... Unless ... He really is that far gone . Then that would mean that my son is really , truly broken ... And I 'm the one that broke him .」
Amenadiel:「Mom ... Do n't .」
Charlotte:「I manipulated him . I pushed him too hard ... I did this ... I 'm a terrible mother . Daniel , Chloe and Ella are talking about the case at the station .」
Daniel:「Public intoxication , vandalism . Okay , Marla does have a few priors . But all par for the course for a wannabe rock star . How 'd you get the lead ?」
Chloe:「I got in to see the mediator . Lucifer did a thing .」
Ella:「Yes , I knew you guys would patch things up .」
Chloe:「Nope . Not even close .」
Ella:「Not even close .」
Daniel:「Well , it sounds like he 's trying to help .」
Chloe:「Why are you rooting for him ?」
Daniel:「I 'm not rooting for him .」

Chloe:「Okay , anyhow , to me , Marla reads like a troublemaker , not a killer .」
Ella:「Oh , unless you count crimes against fashion . Yikes ... Hey , guys . Remember those marks on Ash 's head ?」
Daniel:「You think they came from the knobs on Marla 's bass ?」
Ella:「I mean , I still have to do further tests , but it sure looks like Tetris to me .」
Chloe:「Okay , maybe Marla 's our girl . We got to find her and find that instrument .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Chloe enters in a club .
Chloe:「Yeah , I spoke to her roommate . She said Marla 's here somewhere . Yeah . Okay , bye ... Excuse me ? Do you recognize this woman ?」
Announcer:「Yo , my friends , we got a special guest tonight . Ladies and gentlemen , Lucifer Morningstar !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hello , Los Angeles . Hello . Hello . Oh , you 're too kind . You 're too kind . Hello . This next song is for a , uh , a special someone . A woman who says she does n't need me anymore ... Yeah . Well , I say she 's wrong . And I 'm gon na prove just what I 'm willing to do for our partnership . That 's right , rock a sweet ' 90s jam . Lucifer is singing .The woman I 'm singing for is ... Someone very special . And her name ... Is Marla . Has anyone seen Marla ? We 're looking for someone called Marla . I know she 's here tonight ... She 's the bass player . Ah , there she is ! Marla ! Will you bring her up to the front ? Come on . Marla , everybody ... See ? You need me . Lucifer is playing the bass in the lab .」

Chloe:「That better not be Marla 's bass .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It 's already been processed . And , I 've written you a song . Ready ? Lucifer is singing . Ella enters .」
Ella:「Okay , it was wiped down pretty good , but ... I found traces of Ash 's blood on the tuning knobs .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What , so Marla 's the killer ? Murder solved ! And I believe that proves just how much the department needs me ... Including you .」
Ella:「Uh , we got a stalker , which is normally bad , but makes me very happy right now 'cause I was getting very uncomfortable . Amenadiel is here .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What on Earth does he want ? Amenadiel and Lucifer are in the break room .」
Amenadiel:「You know I watched over Chloe for weeks after you disappeared , right ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Angel or creeper , brother ? It 's a fine line .」
Amenadiel:「You asked me to guard her , so I did . Like an idiot ! You see , because I thought that she meant something to you . We both know she 's special .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh . That she is . A whoopee cushion sent from Dad . I 'm sure he 's having a right old laugh at the moment .」
Amenadiel:「Right . So that means it 's okay to turn your back on Chloe ? Just ignore her feelings ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Feelings she had no control over . Feelings that are n't real .」
Amenadiel:「But she does n't know that .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Which is why I had to save her from ...」
Amenadiel:「From you ... You 're not ignoring Chloe , you 're protecting her because she had no choice .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So I gave it back to her .」
Amenadiel:「By holding up a shield made of Candy ... I 'm sorry , Lucifer ... You should at least explain some of this to Mom . She 's upset .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Good .」
Amenadiel:「She died and went to Hell for you , Luci . For you . She faced her greatest fears all because she loves you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , come on .」

Amenadiel:「Yes , she hurt you . But she was just doing what she thought was best for you . And from what you just told me , I 'm quite sure you can relate to that ... Come on ... What more does it take ? Chloe and Daniel are walking to the interview room .」
Chloe:「You really told Lucifer where I was ? Since when do you guys talk ?」
Daniel:「Since he helped me save your life . They enter in the interview room .」
Marla:「I did n't kill Ash .」
Chloe:「Innocent people do n't run .」
Daniel:「Or get a dead guy 's blood on their guitars .」
Marla:「Whoa , what ?」
Chloe:「Ash 's blood was all over your bass .」
Marla:「I do n't know anything about that . I - I ran because of these . Marla gets out fake IDs from her bag .」
Chloe:「What , you 're making fake IDs ?」
Marla:「That 's how I make rent , okay ?」
Chloe:「How come you did n't tell us Ash wanted to kick you out of the band ? You did n't know that ?」
Marla:「S - Sure , we ... Bumped heads ... He ... He was gon na kick me out ? Look , even if I 'd known , I would n't have hurt him .」
Daniel:「You have proof ?」
Marla:「Um ... Yeah , yeah . This kid , Hunter , from Silver Lake . He 's like 16 , maybe less ? I , uh , made him an ID that said he 's 27 . Anyway , he hung around me all night . Actually , check Wobble . He was live posting stuff of us all night . His ID is HunterSTomstoned . They watch the video .」
Hunter:「I 'm legal !」
Chloe:「There 's a bunch more . Looks like they cover the time of death .」
Marla:「Like I said , I did n't do it .」
Daniel:「Then how did Ash 's blood get all over your bass ?」
Chloe:「Hold on , look at this . Chloe finds another video .」
Marla:「That 's Doug , our drummer . He loaded our gear .」
Daniel:「Doug had the bass last . Daniel opens the door .
 You know what ? I should just stay here . Finish up Marla 's arrest report , but , um ... Maybe your consultant is free . Chloe and Lucifer enter in Doug Kennedy 's house .」
Chloe:「Doug Kennedy , LAPD .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ugh . Typical youth of today , leaving the door unlocked . Lucifer 's phone rings .Uh , sorry , I ... It 's Candy . Just ... Lucifer holds on his phone .Candy , darling , I ca n't talk now . About to catch a killer . Doug strangles Lucifer .Gon na have to call you back !」

Chloe:「Let him go , Doug .」
Doug Kennedy:「You stay back ! J - Just stay back ! This is all Ash 's fault ! We were gon na make it big , and then Ash said he was gon na going solo . He was gon na bail on all of us . I went to smack him and I freaking lost it !」
Chloe:「You 're making this worse , Doug . Let him go .」
Doug Kennedy:「No . If you care about your partner , you drop your gun , now !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , Go ... You may as well just yank the sucker , then , Dougie , 'cause I 'm useless to her , you see ?」
Chloe:「What ? That 's not true , Lucifer .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Is n't it ? I mean , you said as much yourself .」
Doug Kennedy:「W - Wait , what the hell 's going on ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「The Detective does n't need me anymore . So come on . Do your worst .」
Chloe:「Do n't listen to him , Doug .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「No , go on ! Go on , go on . Yank like it 's your last wank . Or better still , you shoot , Detective . Come on . Two birds , one bullet , what do you say ? Huh ? Chloe shoots Doug .」
Chloe:「You okay ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I think so .」
Doug Kennedy:「Yeah , that 's because you shot me !」
Chloe:「Doug Kennedy , you 're under arrest .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「There 's not a scratch , Detective . Impressive marksmanship .」
Chloe:「Actually , I was aiming for you . The cops take Doug at the station . Candy enters in the house .」
Candy:「Oh , my God ! Is Lucifer okay ? We were on the phone when he got cut off , and ...」
Chloe:「Yeah . He 's in the other room , giving a statement . Do n't worry . He 's fine .」
Candy:「Did you save him ? Thank you ! Oh ! Candy hugs Chloe .」
Chloe:「Oh . All ... All righty . That 's ...」
Candy:「His job is way too dangerous . I begged him to quit , but no . My hubby 's all about his work .」
Chloe:「He is ?」

Candy:「Oh , my God , it 's " Detective this , " and " Detective that . " Working with you means so much to him .」
Chloe:「Well , he 's got a strange way of showing it .」
Candy:「Well , duh . Dude 's totally messed up . But then , you probably already know that , huh ? 'Cause you 're kind of the reason why ?」
Chloe:「What ? Uh ...」
Candy:「Did n't you two just go through a super bananas situation ? With like , poison ? He kept saying how he almost lost you , and it was hell and stuff .」
Chloe:「Yeah , i - it was bananas . It , it , I ... Went through a lot , and , um ... And I ... I guess he did , too . Lucifer enters in the room .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Great . Statement given ... Candy . Oh ! Candy jumps in Lucifer 's arms .」
Candy:「Ow .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , Candy darling , the detective 's not a big fan of PDA .」
Chloe:「It 's fine . I 'm just glad she 's here for you ... See you tomorrow at the precinct .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Detective .」

Chloe:「Do n't be late . Charlotte is in her office , she is trying to write a letter to Lucifer . He comes in .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Amenadiel seems to think I owe you a chat . So I 'll start by saying I do not forgive you .」
Charlotte:「I deserve that .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hmm . However , you did make quite a sacrifice for me . Despite your callous manipulations , maybe you were well - intentioned somewhere , deep , deep down . Perhaps that counts for something .」
Charlotte:「I 'm glad you think so , son .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Besides , I 'm far more pissed off at Dad . I mean , you just tried to speed up feelings I already had , whereas he ... Well . He made all those feelings a lie ... Anyway . Nice catching up . I 'll see you in a few millennia .」
Charlotte:「Lucifer , wait ... I appreciate your honesty . And now , I 'd like to be honest with you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh . This'll be a hoot .」
Charlotte:「Since I escaped Hell , all I 've wanted is to get back to the Silver City , to reunite our family .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「You 're still fantasizing about heavenly rebellion ? Just let it go , Mum . Been there , done that , big fall .」
Charlotte:「But that 's just it . Why do you think you lost that fight ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , I do n't know , let 's have a think , shall we ? Not enough cardio ? The fact that dear old Dad 's slightly almighty ? Because I was young , woefully foolish and ...」
Charlotte:「Unarmed ? You know that if you had possessed the Flaming Sword , the weapon that guarded Eden , the weapon that can cut through anything , even the Gates of Heaven itself , well , you would 've won that rebellion .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Why are you dwelling in the past ? The fact is , I did n't have the sword , and Dad destroyed it soon after , so ...」
Charlotte:「What if I told you that the sword was right here , on Earth ? And it 's already in your possession .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ?」
Charlotte:「The Flaming Sword is Azrael 's blade . We have everything we need to go home . Lucifer joins Candy near a car .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , the Oscar goes to Candy Morningstar .」
Candy:「You think they bought it ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , my mother does n't know what hit her . So , thank you . For helping me peek inside that scheming head of hers .」
Candy:「Well , it 's the least I could do . After what you did for me in Vegas ? You saved my life . Pretty sure I 'm gon na owe you for the rest of it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Let 's call it even , shall we ? Candy wants to take of her wedding ring .」
Candy:「Yeah . Oh , that reminds me」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , no , no , no . You keep that . I hear divorce is quite expensive these days . In fact , why do n't you add this one to the , uh , pot ? Lucifer gives candy his wedding ring .」
Candy:「Thank you . I 'll put them both to good use . 'Cause , you know , I totally have so many plans . Oh , God .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , to making plans .」
Candy:「Yeah .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「All right .」

Candy:「Lucifer . I get why you had me con your family . But what is going on with you and Detective Decker ? It 's none of my business , but ... I would n't screw that one up . Candy gets in the car and leaves .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm trying not to .」

narration:Lucifer , Amenadiel and Charlotte are at the Penthouse .
Amenadiel:「Azrael 's blade . You 're sure ?」
Charlotte:「I am . So if we could just get your brother to stop drinking and show us where he hid it ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I just wanted you to tell him what you told me , before I make a mess .」
Charlotte:「What mess are you going to ... Lucifer hits a wall .」
Amenadiel:「That 's where it 's been this whole time ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Put it somewhere I could keep an eye on it . Would n't want someone to incite another stabbing rampage , now , would we ?」
Charlotte:「Well , it 's not my fault humans ca n't handle the divine . Besides , if I had n't done that , we would n't have found out what that blade actually is .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「And you really think that this is the Flaming Sword ? I thought Father destroyed it during my rebellion so I would n't use it against Him .」
Amenadiel:「Father said He destroyed it .」
Charlotte:「Apparently , He just hid it in plain sight .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But it 's so small and so ... Not flaming .」

Charlotte:「That 's because only you , my Lightbringer , can ignite it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , what am I supposed to do , dip it in some whiskey and light a match ?」
Charlotte:「Last time it caught flame , you were angry , so think about your Father , that should do it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「All right . Nothing happens .No ! Right , back to my whiskey plan .」
Charlotte:「No , you 're much too calm . When it flamed before , you were furious .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So you 're saying the blade can sense my emotional state ? It 's the most powerful weapon in the universe , Mum ... The sword that guarded Eden , not a groovy mood ring .」
Amenadiel:「Maybe I should try it .」
Charlotte:「Your brother is the Lightbringer , Amenadiel . He just needs to apply himself and get angry !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I ca n't just get ang ... Amenadiel hits Lucifer .Aah ! Bloody hell !」
Amenadiel:「Well , it was worth a shot .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Maybe Amenadiel should try it . Here , why do n't you hold it , and I 'll kick you in the ...」

Charlotte:「Boys ! We need to work together on this . We 're so close now .」
Amenadiel:「Are we , Mom ? Because our return home hinges on Lucifer being able to control his emotions .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , you 've no faith in me , brother ? Good . Means I get to prove you wrong . Lucifer has a session with Linda .」
Linda:「So the three of you plan to use this ... Flaming Sword to cut through the Gates of Heaven and go home ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「That 's the plan , yes .」
Linda:「Do you mean actual gates ? Like big and pearly ? Are we talking clouds ? Harps ? Old dudes in white robes ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「And my dad is Morgan Freeman ? Focus , Doctor . Now , come on . I need you to help me control my emotions .」
Linda:「Well , emotions ca n't be controlled , Lucifer .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? Is n't that your entire job ?」
Linda:「My job is to help you understand your emotions . I can help you become aware of what it is you 're feeling , or trying to avoid feeling .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , you 've got that look on your face when you 're saying something insightful and waiting for me to figure it out .」
Linda:「I think you married her to hide something ... Or from something .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , look , what I may or may not be hiding is beside the point , Doctor . Either way , I need the sword lit . So , come on . Emotions . Chop , chop .」
Linda:「You clearly have a lot of walls up , Lucifer . Between yourself and your emotions , and now between yourself and me . If you 're unwilling to bring those walls down , I ca n't help you . Maze joins Chloe in their kitchen .」
Maze:「What the hell , Decker ? No breakfast ?」
Chloe:「Oh , I forgot . Sorry .」
Maze:「You forgot ? Chloe Decker forgot ? Are you okay ?」
Chloe:「What did you do with my roommate ? She would never ask about my feelings .」
Maze:「Oh , feelings ? No , I was thinking brain tumour , early - onset dementia , chlamydia .」

Chloe:「Uh , well , yeah ... I guess I 'm still a little upset that Lucifer just disappeared on me and got married just when we were ... You know , I do n't know what we were . Maze pushes the sound of her music louder .
 And sure , he got it annulled right away , but , you know , that almost makes it worse ... Focus on Trixie . And I 'm - I 'm worried about her ... Have you noticed anything ? You have ? Chloe figures out that Maze ca n't hear her .
 Okay , I 'm gon na adopt a dozen puppies , and I 'm gon na let them sleep in your bedroom ... Nice , Maze . Nice .」
Maze:「Come on . I 'm sorry . Okay , I ca n't deal with human emotions on an empty stomach . Makes me ... Nauseous .」
Chloe:「Of course . What did I expect ?」
Maze:「Oh , come on . Chloe joins Lucifer in the street .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Tall , non - fat almond milk latte with sugar - free caramel drizzle and no vodka this time .」
Chloe:「What 's the occasion ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I thought we should celebrate our first day together as crime - solving divorcees . Ah , making a joke you do n't like . Check . See ? We 'll be back to normal in no time .」
Chloe:「Uh , not until you start whining about how boring the case is .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , touché , Detective . They enter in the crime scene .」
Daniel:「Our victim 's name is Debbie Lang . She worked as the head of administrations of a very prestigious elementary school on the Westside called ... Called Starford .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「How could a career in education pay for all this ?」
Chloe:「L.A. private schools are insane . You know , money gets thrown around . What do we have ?」
Ella:「Well , poor Debbie was stabbed in the back , literally .」
Daniel:「Maybe figuratively , too . There was no signs of B & E , which suggests she knew who her killer was .」
Chloe:「Anyone recover the murder weapon ?」
Daniel:「No , not yet .」
Ella:「You 'd think knife , but the circumference of the wound is unusually wide , like it was a ... Fat knife .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「PhD in psychology , certificate for behavioural therapy . I should have thought this woman had figured out human interaction , yet she provoked someone into killing her ? Therapists do n't really know anything , do they ?」
Chloe:「Ooh , Lucifer 's projecting his personal issues on the case . Guess we 're back to normal .」
Ella:「Ah , man . I got into it with my shrink a couple of weeks ago .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? You see a psychologist ?」
Ella:「I know . You would n't think so , right ? 'Cause I 'm so upbeat all the time . But up here ... Lot of darkness .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Really ?」
Chloe:「Hey , guys ? What 's this ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , where do I start ?」
Ella:「Missing commemorative scissors . Looks like we found our fat knife . Or did n't find it , but , you know .」
Chloe:「So , weapon of convenience . Could have been a crime of passion . Vic knew the killer , so we should go to the school where she worked . Chloe and Lucifer are interviewing the Headmaster at Starford .」

Headmaster:「I , uh ... I just ca n't believe it . You know , Debbie was the best head of admissions we 've ever had , the heart and soul of the Starford community . We 're all devastated .」
Chloe:「Is there any way we could see her office or the last few things she was working on ?」
Headmaster:「Sure . No phones on campus , please . Sends a message that our arms are n't actually available to our children .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Detective , this school is weird , and , yes , this case is boring .」
Headmaster:「Not weird . Unique . Our groundbreaking pedagogical approach focuses on emotional self - control .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Emotional self - control ? How 'd you go about that , then ?」
Chloe:「Lucifer , can you go back to being bored , and not derail the conversation ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no , but this is fascinating , Detective . The so - called expert I just consulted insisted emotions ca n't be controlled .」
Headmaster:「Well , we respectfully disagree . Um , our children learn to manage their emotions in no time .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , why did n't you say so in the first place ? Let the schooling begin !」

Headmaster:「You see , we make our students ' emotional needs the priority . Whence our motto .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「" Sentio ergo sum . " " I feel , therefore I am . " Hmm .」
Chloe:「Fascinating . Let 's just stick to the case .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hold on , Detective . Debbie is n't going to un - die , is she ? Whereas I require immediate assistance . Look , yes , how long does it take for rug rats to gain emotional self - control ?」
Headmaster:「Oh , our methods work very quickly . The parents see it for themselves after sitting in on just one class . Notice all the , um , testimonials .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes .」
Chloe:「So , Debbie . Did she have any enemies here at work that you know of ?」
Headmaster:「You see , our faculty practices the same conflict - resolution method as our children . People in a conflict actually present handmade gifts to one another . This was Debbie 's desk , and , as you can see , not a single macramé .」
Chloe:「What about outside the faculty ? Any recent incidents with parents maybe ?」
Headmaster:「Nothing like that would ever happen Starford .」

Chloe:「Oh , weird , 'cause heads of admissions at other prestigious private schools are practically stalked by eager parents , so , maybe the spots here at Starford just are n't as coveted .」
Headmaster:「Not so . No , parents go above and beyond to get their children here at Starford . And they go absolutely crazy when they fail to land a spot . Just the other day ... Well , perhaps there was one incident . Debbie did get into a rather ugly fight with the parents of a child who 'd been denied admission . It got vicious .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ooh . Fisticuffs ? Beat - down at the bike sheds after the final bell ?」
Headmaster:「No , verbally vicious .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah , terrible grammar .」
Chloe:「Mmhmm .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Got you .」
Chloe:「Did you see the fight ?」
Headmaster:「Everyone saw it . It happened right in front of the school , violating what we like to think of as our safe space here at Starford .」
Chloe:「What was said ? Chloe asks question to 2 fathers in the interview room .」
Jon:「I will kill you . That is what I said , yes . But you have to understand . I was furious that she 'd rejected our son , Wolfe .」

Craig:「If you have children , I 'm sure you can relate . A Starford education feeds almost directly to the Ivy League . Debbie took our money and crushed our son 's future .」
Chloe:「What do you mean ? What money ?」
Craig:「Well , she implied that a hefty contribution to the school would grease the wheels on Wolfe 's admission .」
Chloe:「So you made the contribution and Wolfe was still rejected ?」
Craig:「Yes . We felt we 'd been ... Misled .」
Jon:「More like robbed . And then , when we tried to bring it up to Debbie , she had the gall to suggest that the school had n't received the donation . But the check cleared ! Lying ... Daniel enters in the room with new clue .」
Craig:「I know my husband 's temper suggests otherwise , but we 're dealing with this the civilized way ... Through our lawyer . We could never kill anyone .」
Chloe:「Then can you explain why the murder weapon was found in your pool house ? Lucifer is reading at Lux .」
Girl 1:「Are you Lucifer Morningstar ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I am , yes . But sadly , I do n't have the time to give you the most amazing night of your life . I 'm busy dealing with this impenetrable book .」

Girl 1:「Mr. Morningstar , you 're under arrest .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I am now , am I ? On what charge ?」
Girl 1:「Ladies , he 's resisting arrest .」
Girl 2:「Cuff him .」
Girl 3:「My pleasure .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , why do you sexy detectives look so disturbingly familiar ? Mum ! Mum , come on . Come on out from wherever you 're snooping .」
Charlotte:「What ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah .」
Charlotte:「I tried to find ones that resemble your detective . Then again , all humans look alike to me .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , you did , um , well , remarkably well . But what on Earth for ?」
Charlotte:「Since anger did n't work , I wanted to incite a different emotion . See if that would get the sword fired up .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「A foursome is n't an emotion , Mum . Ladies , I 'm sorry , but , uh , it 's hard for me to enjoy a triple - decker with my mum 's hands all over it , so ... Another time , maybe . Shame . The girls leave .Do n't look so glum . It 's just a matter of time before I get a handle on my emotions .」
Charlotte:「I know it 's a matter of time . That 's the problem .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What 's the rush ? Not like eternity 's got a " best before " date .」
Charlotte:「You 'd understand if you had children . Many of which you have n't seen in a millennia .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . That 's it , Mum . You 're right . I need to have a child . Right , have a gander at that . See if you can learn a few things . Chloe is on the phone with Ella in her kitchen .」
Chloe:「Mm - hmm . Right , well , it seemed like something was n't adding up . Yeah , okay . Thanks , Ella . Lucifer scares Chloe .
 Okay . I am gon na tie a bell around your neck at some point .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , sounds like a fun bit of foreplay , but I 've more important things to attend to first .」
Chloe:「Yeah , I 'm sure you do , but hold on . Something 's bothering me . The killer wiped the fingerprints off the handle , but not Debbie 's blood from the blade .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But the scissors were found at their home , correct ?」
Chloe:「In the unlocked pool house , so anyone could have gained access to it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So you think the killer planted the murder weapon on the couple last seen fighting with the victim . That 's admirably devious .」
Chloe:「Jon and Craig said that their check cleared . But Debbie told them the school never received their money .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So she 's lying .」
Chloe:「But what if she was n't lying ? What if somebody embezzled the money at the school ? Debbie could have found out , she could have confronted them . They could be the killer . So , you know , what we got to do ... Check the books , see if there 's a record of a donation .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right .」

Chloe:「Baby , why are you still in your PJs ? You 're gon na miss the bus . I do n't have time to drive you to school today .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hold on . Why do n't you go and deal with the donation thingy , and I can , uh , take the little sh ... Ugar plum fairy to school .」
Chloe:「Are you sure ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「For my partner ? Yes , I can sacrifice .」
Chloe:「You okay with that ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Brilliant . Lucifer parks his car on Starford Academy 's parking .」
Trixie:「You 're gon na be in trouble if my mom finds out .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? I said I 'd drive you to school . I never specified which one . So , play along , and I 'll deliver my end of the bargain .」
Mr. Taylor:「Mr. Morningstar ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes .」
Mr. Taylor:「Hey . Mr. Taylor .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah .」
Mr. Taylor:「You 're here for the Starford tour ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I am indeed . I am indeed . And this little creature , who gets whatever she wants ...」

Trixie:「Trixie Morningstar . Nice to meet you , sir .」
Mr. Taylor:「Hi .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah , lovely . Mr. Taylor leads Lucifer and Trixie in the school .」
Mr. Taylor:「So , right upstairs there is our plant - based kitchen . Uh , it 's where the students make their own lunch . You know , instead of packaged , preprocessed foods , we , uh , we like them to bring in , uh ... Trixie holds Lucifer 's hand .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Sorry , do we have to touch ? Do n't you have a leash or something for when we go out ?」
Trixie:「Do you want to sell this or not ?」
Mr. Taylor:「It 's a lot of fun ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , that 's all quite riveting . Um , where is it where children learn to , you know , harness their emotions ?」
Mr. Taylor:「Uh ... Uh ... Hold on . Uh , sorry , this is n't my normal job . I 'm just filling in till we find a replacement for poor Debbie .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , well , what is it you normally do ?」
Mr. Taylor:「Uh , I 'm the movement and wellness mentor .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「So you 're the P.E. teacher . Lovely .」
Mr. Taylor:「Okay , well , right here , this is the , uh , meditation room . Um , and then , right next door is , uh , it 's where the kids do their justice circles .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I need you to show me where they teach lessons on controlling your emotions .」
Mr. Taylor:「Oh . She 's having emotional problems ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Who ? Oh , the child . Sure . Probably . Listen , what would be really helpful is turning feelings into something , like a weapon .」
Mr. Taylor:「Well , I think I know just the class .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You do ? Wonderful . Great . Come on , child . Chloe and Daniel are asking questions to the Headmaster .」
Headmaster:「And you want to look through our ledgers ... Why ?」
Chloe:「Because we want to know if Debbie was telling the truth about the missing donation , and it could tie into the motive for the murder . The Headmaster starts to cry .」
Headmaster:「I knew it . You got me . No need to look at the books . I did it . The donation never made it into the school account . I cashed the check .」

Daniel:「You stole the money ? Why ?」
Headmaster:「I guess I was tired of feeling like I did n't belong . Starford seemed so nonjudgmental and inclusive . But I 'm - I 'm under a lot of pressure to look a certain way , drive a certain car . And my salary barely covers my rent .」
Chloe:「Okay , so Debbie found out that you took Jon and Craig 's donation money and ... Did you kill her ?」
Headmaster:「What ? No , no . Debbie assumed the parents never extended the check . They called her a liar , got so upset , and they killed her . But I 'm to blame . I 'm sorry .」
Daniel:「Look , we 're not real sure if Jon and Craig killed Debbie .」
Headmaster:「Really ? Oh . If it 's not related to the murders , after all , um , perhaps we could disregard ... That last exchange . Mr. Taylor opens the door .」
Mr. Taylor:「Uh , is everything okay in here ? Sounded like a child was crying .」
Chloe:「We 're just asking the assistant dean some questions . Uh , I am Detective Decker . This is Detective ...」
Mr. Taylor:「Oh , you 're Trixie 's cop - mom , are n't you ? That 's a great kid you 've got .」
Chloe:「Thank you . H - How do you know ... How do you know my daughter ?」
Mr. Taylor:「She 's in Madison 's class right now . Yeah , her father brought her in .」
Daniel:「Um ... I 'm pretty sure he did n't .」
Chloe:「Uh , can you finish getting the statement , please , and I 'll see whatever the hell Lucifer is doing . Trixie and Lucifer are sitting in Madison 's class .」
Madison:「But the good news is bad feelings can be harnessed into good actions . My son Ranger knows this . Right , Ranger ? Would anyone else like to try ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yeah .」

Madison:「Would any of the children like to volunteer ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「For a progressive school , it 's rather ageist .」
Madison:「Trixie . Do you have feelings you want to use ? I know it 's only your first time , but ... Chloe enters .」
Trixie:「I feel sad .」
Madison:「Okay , why ?」
Trixie:「Because ... My mommy almost died . Her job is scary . But she has helped so many other people with their problems , I do n't want her to worry about mine ... So I pretend I 'm okay .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well ... Welcome to the club of parental deceit , child . It 's a lonely place , but , uh , that 's the price of being clever ... Okay , now what ? How does one control that juvenile angst usefully ?」
Madison:「Trixie can channel her strong feelings into something productive .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay , go on .」
Madison:「For example , she could ... Write a poem .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「A poem ? I came here to learn how to turn emotions into energy , not to become Dr. Seuss .」
Madison:「Well , creative energy is energy .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , come on . If I wanted to attend an art class , I would have at least had the sense to take one with a nude model . I suppose you 're channelling emotional despair over not getting dessert before your veggies , are you ?」
Child:「No . This is a picture of my mommy stabbing Debbie .」
Chloe:「Lucifer .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Detective . Right , before you chastise me for kidnapping your offspring , I 've solved the case . Chloe and Daniel are outside the school .」
Chloe:「Okay , the boy 's mother is Joy Sherman . This is her contact info .」
Daniel:「Okay , I 'll look into it . Is Trixie okay ?」
Chloe:「I 'll talk to her . I 'll see you at the station , okay ?」
Daniel:「Yeah . Daniel leaves . Lucifer and Trixie get out of the school .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah , Detective . You need to understand , I 'm dealing with a most challenging issue ...」
Chloe:「Yeah , I want to talk to my daughter for a second .」
Trixie:「Please do n't be mad at him . I should be the one in trouble .」

Chloe:「Oh ... I 'm not mad at you . You 're not in trouble , Monkey . I do want you to know you can talk to me if something 's going on .」
Trixie:「I know .」
Chloe:「You know that ? You want to talk about something now ?」
Trixie:「I could tell you anything ?」
Chloe:「Yes .」
Trixie:「I 'd like to ride with Lucifer . I promise I 'll make him take me to my actual school this time .」
Chloe:「Huh . Um , yeah , okay . Trixie gets in the car .
 You are lucky my daughter likes you so much .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I 'm starting to respect the deceptive little parasite .」
Chloe:「Oh , well , that 's nice .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Speaking of , a deal 's a deal .」
Chloe:「What ? Lucifer casts his keys to Trixie .
 Oh , no .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ... Driving lessons will have to wait until your mum 's not looking .」
Chloe:「Bye , babe . Lucifer is in his parking .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , kids ... Ah . Wonderful , a mugger . Come on , then . I fancy a bit of exercise after a frustrating day . The hoody attacks Lucifer .Mum ?」
Charlotte:「Let me see the blade . Anything ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Since when can you hit so hard ?」
Charlotte:「My strength has been growing steadily .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「As is your recklessness , it seems . I mean , what did you expect me to do ? Stab you with the blade and have it be ignited by my joy ?」
Charlotte:「I was trying to get you worked up . Anger and awakening your sexual instincts did n't work . I thought maybe if you were afraid for your life ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , if you really wanted to upset me , you should have just thrown me into the Corvette ... Do n't ... Throw me into the Corvette . Just trust me , Mum . I 'm dealing with this .」
Charlotte:「Clearly , not fast enough .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Why are you so angry ?」
Charlotte:「I 'm not angry !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , you are .」
Charlotte:「Just ... Really need to get home , where we belong . Soon . Daniel joins Chloe at her desk .」

Daniel:「Hey , Chlo , we got that kid 's mom in inter ... What 's wrong ?」
Chloe:「Look at this e - mail .」
Daniel:「Why are you being invited to a " grieving gathering " at Starford Academy ?」
Chloe:「'Cause Trixie 's being considered for admission . Apparently , she impressed some of the teachers there .」
Daniel:「Or they were impressed with Lucifer 's bank account . It 's probably the only thing they care about at that pretentious place .」
Chloe:「Well , I mean , it is non - traditional , that 's for sure .」
Daniel:「Wait , are you actually considering it ? I mean , do n't you think that with the divorce and the move and everything that Trixie 's had enough big changes lately ?」
Chloe:「Exactly . Trixie 's pretending that she 's fine , Dan . One morning at Starford , and she 's been opening up like I have n't been able to get her to do for months ... You did n't see her .」
Daniel:「Yeah , well , it kills me to think that she , uh , she 's been keeping up an act just to protect us . When did our kid get so adult ?」
Chloe:「She does still hide chocolate cake under the bed , though .」
Daniel:「Yeah , well , thank God for that . Okay , well , maybe we can consider sending our daughter to that school after we 've solved the ongoing murder investigation there . Daniel and Chloe ask questions to Joy Sherman .
 Can you explain to us why your son would draw this , Ms. Sherman ?」
Joy Sherman:「I 'm not sure what it even is .」
Chloe:「He says it 's you killing Debbie .」
Joy Sherman:「Oh , he was listening to me . He never listens to me .」
Chloe:「So you said that you killed Debbie ?」
Joy Sherman:「No , I - I said I wanted to kill her . Every morning , while peeling the sticker off some root vegetable I got at the supermarket for a third of the price of the organic crap . Rubbing it in dirt works like a charm , by the way .」
Chloe:「Hmm . Why would you say that to him ?」
Joy Sherman:「Because I 'm single and I work full - time , and Debbie had a million little ways of making me feel like a bad mom because of it .」
Daniel:「For working ?」
Joy Sherman:「Yeah .」
Daniel:「Well , that sounds like a great environment .」
Joy Sherman:「Apparently , I was n't " involved enough . " Like , I 'm sorry that my bake sale cupcakes were n't gluten and dairy free , Debbie .」
Chloe:「Joy , where were you two nights ago ?」
Joy Sherman:「Tuesday ?」
Chloe:「Mm - hmm .」
Joy Sherman:「Um , I was , I was with Mr. Taylor .」
Chloe:「Mr. Taylor ? The wellness mentor ? What were you doing ?」
Joy Sherman:「We were n't discussing the French New Wave .」

Daniel:「So you 're having an affair with the ... With the P.E. teacher .」
Joy Sherman:「Only on Tuesday nights . He had a busy schedule ... Look , every mom at Starford knows that the movement and wellness program is one of the best benefits of the school . I mean , the man is as dumb as a box of hair , but he does know how to move .」
Chloe:「While I check into your alibi , uh , can you tell us , are there any other people that you can think of that had a grudge against Debbie ?」
Joy Sherman:「Are you , are you kidding ? Who did n't hate the Wicked Witch of the Westside ? She held the keys to the most exclusive school in the city , and she never let anyone forget it .」
Chloe:「We were told that she was very well loved .」
Joy Sherman:「Well , the hairlines and the perky boobs are n't the only phony things at that school . You want to know who killed her ? You should go to that grieving gathering they 're throwing . All her frenemies will be there . Chloe is getting prepared for the grieving gathering .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Maze:「Never seen you so worried about an outfit , Decker . Not picking up the first coat off the floor as usual ?」
Chloe:「Nope . No , I 'm not . I am going to a grieving gathering at the school , and , well , you should see the other parents . They are very fancy . It 's ... You know what ? Never mind . I do n't want to make you sick with my feelings .」
Maze:「No . Come on . I 'm listening , I promise . No more earbuds .」
Chloe:「Okay , Trixie might get into this private school , and it could be really , really good for her . But it 's super exclusive , and I 'm not sure that I want her in that kind of environment .」
Maze:「That 's what you 're so worried about ?」
Chloe:「Mm - hmm .」
Maze:「All right . A school like that is great for Trixie .」
Chloe:「You think so ?」
Maze:「Yeah . Fancy - pants rich kids ? They 're like vipers , okay ? Trixie will learn to slash them with her words . Then I will teach her the knives .」
Chloe:「Oh , okay . I think ... I know you 're trying to help , but , uh , I do n't think you can help me with ... With this now . Chloe is at the grieving gathering .
 Hi . Uh , Chloe Decker . Uh , Trixie 's mom .」
Elizabeth Channing:「Just you ? Alone ?」
Chloe:「Just me , alone . Yeah .」
Parents:「Aw .」
Elizabeth Channing:「That must be difficult .」
Maze:「Actually , she 's with me .」
Elizabeth Channing:「Oh . Two mommies ?」

Maze:「Oh , hell yeah . Um ... Trixie 's a handful , definitely a two - woman job . Right , honey ?」
Chloe:「Mm - hmm .」
Maze:「Yeah . Chloe and Maze are talking .」
Chloe:「What are you doing here ?」
Maze:「Look , I 'm not good at listening . Or talking about emotion stuff . But I do know you do n't let your girl go into enemy territory alone .」
Chloe:「Thank you . Oh , wow . I guess networking is the new grieving .」
Maze:「Mm - hmm .」
Sonya William:「You 're Trixie 's moms , right ?」
Chloe:「Mm .」
Sonya William:「I 'm the event coordinator here . I just wanted to tell you that we 'd be so happy to have you as part of the family . Mid - afternoon yoga always needs more volunteers .」
Chloe:「I would love to , but mid - afternoons , I 'm at my job .」
Sonya William:「Oh .」
Chloe:「Yeah .」
Maze:「She 's a homicide detective .」
Sonya William:「Oh .」
Maze:「She has a gun and everything . A real pistol in the sack , too .」
Chloe:「Oh ! Jokester .」
Sonya William:「I wish I had time for a job . But you know what they say」
Chloe:「Mm - hmm . I 've never heard anyone say that . Does n't makes sense . Maze , look at everybody . Look at these parents . Who has a kid and is this put together ?」
Maze:「Use those detective skills , Decker . Get out of your own head . Look around .」
Chloe:「All right .」
Maze:「That entire table over there is just waiting for that couple to go nuclear . Oh , when that woman walked in , the entire room started commenting on her cheek - filler .」
Chloe:「Hmm .」
Maze:「They 're miserable . And waiting to tear each other apart . Actually ... Reminds me of home .」
Chloe:「Hmm . You know what ? You 're right . They love gossip . And the juicier , the better ... You know what ? Let 's give them something to talk about ... Do n't do that . Amenadiel tries to use the Flaming Sword . Lucifer enters in the penthouse .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Careful , brother . Too much of that will make you go blind .」

Amenadiel:「Mom was right . I ca n't make it work .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah , I see . You 're up here practicing a different kind of self - flagellation , are you ? Hoping for a celestial spark ? You do n't even have your powers .」
Amenadiel:「Yeah , thanks for that reminder , Luci . You know , I also do n't seem to have much of Mom 's attention anymore . Because , unlike you , I do n't have some glorious destiny to wield the sword .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「And what 's so great about Mum 's attention ? She nearly killed me in the car park earlier , trying to help me achieve that destiny . Oh , good job warning me she 's strong enough to lift a house , by the way .」
Amenadiel:「Same old Luci , always the victim . Ca n't you just be grateful for once ? You 're the Lightbringer !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Am I ? Am I , indeed ? 'Cause so far , it 's just Mum 's word against , well , reality ... What if she 's wrong , brother ? She 's been acting very odd recently . On edge . This obsession with getting home , it 's a bit much , do n't you think ?」

Amenadiel:「You see , I thought we all wanted to go back .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You know I do n't lie , brother . So trust me when I say nothing would make me happier than Mum getting her wish .」
Amenadiel:「Then you need to stop fighting this , Luci , and find a way to get the sword to work . Because whether we like it or not , it is all on you ... Lightbringer . Maze is talking with a father at the grieving gathering .」
Maze:「You , uh , call this pâté , huh ?」
Jordan Shiloh:「I know , right ? You know , say what you will about Debbie , but that woman knew how to cater a party ... You 're married to that cop , right ?」
Maze:「Yeah ... Actually , can you keep a secret ? My wife is very close to making an arrest . We think the killer might actually be here ... She found evidence just tonight . DNA . It 's in the car right now ... Somebody here is going to jail . Oh , but keep that on the DL , all right ?」
Jordan Shiloh:「Right .」
Maze:「Knuckles . Jordan ca n't keep the secret .
 Five gossips down , a couple more to be safe .」

Chloe:「No , look , this is plenty . Let 's hope they take the bait ... Okay , all I have to do now is stake out the car , if the killer is here , they 'll go out there for the evidence . Madison is about to break in Chloe 's car when Lucifer shows up .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah . Just the person I 'm looking for .」
Madison:「Mr. Morningstar .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . Look , I 'm willing to give your Kumbaya curriculum a second look . Perhaps if I 'm more specific about what I want out of it」
Madison:「Uh , uh , yeah , she - she asked me to grab something for her .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah . Well , let 's get that over with , so we can focus on what 's importantUh , do n't tell her I , uh , got a copy made . She gets all fussy about things like illegal duplicates . So , uh , do you do private tutoring ? 'Cause I 'm free most of the time . Specifically now .」
Madison:「Yeah . Chloe comes .」
Chloe:「Lucifer , what are you doing ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , Madison said she needed something from your car .」
Chloe:「What ? She 's the killer .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「That 's quite a leap , Detective .」
Chloe:「No , it is n't . Lucifer , please , she ... Madison draws the gun .
 My gun 's in the car .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , why did n't you tell me all this earlier ?」
Chloe:「Put your hands up .」
Madison:「Stay back ! Stay back !」
Chloe:「Madison , put down the gun .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . Perhaps if you channel your feelings into something other than bullets , that might ... Madison shoots .」
Madison:「Okay . I said stay back !」
Chloe:「Okay , got it .」
Madison:「Oh , you ! This is all your fault ! With your stupid handsome face and your chiselled abs and your huge ...」
Chloe:「You slept with the P.E. teacher , too ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , the movement and wellness mentor , Detective , but ...」
Chloe:「Madison , if I 've learned anything here tonight , it 's that everyone here has secrets . No one 's perfect . Okay ?」

Mr. Taylor:「But we did n't have s*x ... Well , I mean , okay , one time . But , come on , that was , like , years ago .」
Madison:「One time was all it took .」
Chloe:「This is about your son , is n't it ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? You mean the boy in the class with the special diet of boogers and paste ?」
Chloe:「Lucifer .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ...」
Madison:「God knows I love Ranger , but he 's not very smart . My husband is , and that witch Debbie put two and two together .」
Chloe:「And she told you that she was gon na expose Mr. Taylor as Ranger 's real father .」
Madison:「She hated how all the moms loved him . My husband would 've left me .」
Chloe:「Madison , I understand . You were just thinking of your son 's future . I - I get it . I - I 'm a mother , too . Um , maybe you remember Trixie , my daughter . Th - The little girl who was sad because her mom had such a scary job . That 's me . She 's my daughter ... So , please , Madison , put down the gun .」

Madison:「I 'm so sorry . I - I got so angry , I could n't control myself .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? Hold on . All this talk about controlling your emotions and harnessing them for creation was all just a sham ?」
Madison:「I tried so hard to make it real . We ca n't control our emotions . We just have to keep try ... Maze attacks Madison .」
Maze:「Listening to feelings , it 's not my thing . Right , honey ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You know , if I were you , I 'd take my child out of this school . Terrible place .」
Mr. Taylor:「Wait . I 'm a father ? That 's awesome . Chloe talks to Trixie before bedtime .」
Chloe:「Here you go ... How cute this guy is . So ... I went back to that school today . And I think they 'd let you in if you wanted to go . So how do you feel about that ? Well , can I tell you how it made me feel being there ? Well , at first , it made me feel insecure and worried . I mean , the school is so fancy , and all the other mommies seemed so perfect ... But guess what I found out .」
Trixie:「What ?」

Chloe:「That the other mommies , they were just as worried as I was . And they were just pretending to be perfect .」
Trixie:「Is it bad to pretend ?」
Chloe:「No , not always , Monkey . I mean , sometimes people feel like ... Like they have to pretend that everything 's okay . But ... And this is the most important part ... You and me , we never have to pretend with each other .」
Trixie:「I really did n't like that school .」
Chloe:「I did n't like it either .」
Trixie:「Thanks for telling me , Monkey . Lucifer has a session with Linda .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It turns out you were right , Doctor . It 's impossible to control your feelings . And anyone who does risks turning into a murderous lunatic with a child of below - average intelligence , so ...」
Linda:「Yeah , well , I 'm sure at least some of that , that 's inaccurate . But I 'm glad you 've come around . Are you ready to be more forthcoming now ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I suppose . If that 's what it takes to get you to help me . So ... Um ... I was n't lying before , obviously . I do intend to use the Flaming Sword to cut through the Gates of Heaven .」

Linda:「But what you left out ... ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Is that once I do that , I plan on kicking Mum into Heaven and slamming the gates on her backside .」
Linda:「But she 'll be trapped there , on her own . Wo n't God destroy her ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「opefully , they tear each other apart . Then they 'll both get what they deserve .」
Linda:「What 's that ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Punishment . For manipulating me . I mean , Dad set a trap for me , but Mum was the one who made sure that I fell into it . She was the one that made sure that I felt ... That I ... That I felt things that I do n't want to feel anymore .」
Linda:「That , right there , that what you stopped yourself from feeling , that 's exactly what you need to feel .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What , the anger ? Oh , I feel it .」

Linda:「Not the anger ... The pain . That 's what you 've been suppressing . All the pain and heartbreak that you have over what happened with your mother ... And Chloe ... I know it 's difficult . But the only way to get over that pain ... Is to go through it . Amenadiel , Lucifer and Chloe are at the penthouse .」
Amenadiel:「So you think you 've figured it out ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes .」
Charlotte:「And you 're sure this time ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Just ... Let me do it , Mum , please . Lucifer lights the Flaming Sword .」
Charlotte:「That 's it ? ! You must not be feeling enough !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Trust me . That 's it . That 's all I 've got !」
Charlotte:「You have to try harder .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ?」
Charlotte:「Try harder !」
Amenadiel:「Mom ! That 's enough !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm not broken . The sword must be .」

narration:Lucifer is on a gurney , in a hospital .
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm not the Devil , I 'm just a man who 's delusional . I made it all up . I made it all ... Up . 36 hours earlier , Lucifer has a session with Linda .I 'm doing great .」
Linda:「Great . Great is ... Good ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay , good talk . Same time next week ?」
Linda:「Uh , sorry , it 's just that ... Some of the things that you said in our last session raised some issues for me .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Do tell .」
Linda:「So this secret plan to cut through the Gates of Heaven ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , actually , we 've hit a bit of a snag with that . The Flaming Sword 's kaput . Now , we ca n't work out what 's wrong with it , and until we can , we 're in a bit of a holding pattern .」
Linda:「Ah , that 's a relief .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , why would you say that ?」
Linda:「God and His ex having a fight to the death ? Sounds kind of bad for , you know , humanity .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , you 'll probably be fine .」
Linda:「Probably ? That 's not exactly reassuring . What does Maze think of your plan ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I do n't know . I have n't told her . Hence the secret part of the secret plan .」
Linda:「She 's your best friend .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , well , as much as I love my little s*x thug , Maze can do things that she thinks are in my best interest that turn out to be , well , disastrous . And I ca n't afford that .」
Linda:「Hmm .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But the good news is she 's busy focusing on her new bestie right now . The Detective . They 're practically inseparable . Chloe tries to avoid Maze .」
Maze:「Hey , roomie . Where you going ?」
Chloe:「Maze , hey . Um , I 'm on my way to work . I 'm running late .」
Maze:「Oh , no , but you have n't had breakfast , come on .」
Chloe:「No , I 'm ... Oh , yeah , no , I 'm not hungry .」

Maze:「Yeah , I know , the whole boring domestic thing ... Not my jam . I should stick to managing the social part of our friendship . You want to kick someone 's ass ?」
Chloe:「Maze , I feel like , you know , we 've been hanging out a lot lately . And I think perhaps we should expand our circle of friends .」
Maze:「I got you , Decker .」
Chloe:「Yeah ? You do ?」
Maze:「I smell what you 're stepping in ... Trust me . Chloe and Lucifer are walking in a hospital 's hallway .」
Chloe:「You know , you should give a Maze a call . Has n't it been a while since you two hung out ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Tired of tripping over her s*x toys , are you ?」
Chloe:「I did n't say that . I just think it would do her , and me , some good if she was n't around all the time .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , here 's the thing . Maze is like one of those little baby birds that imprints on whatever 's near . Sadly , that 's you . You are the new me .」
Chloe:「I do n't want to be you . I just want some space .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh . Eventually Maze will find her place , but until then , what 's the worst that could happen ? They enter in the crime scene .」
Ella:「Murder . Confirmed . Blunt - force trauma to the back of the head . The victim got hit with this backgammon board .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Not very sportsmanlike .」
Ella:「Hmm - mm . He was an orderly . Toby Mulligan , 32 . Body was found here .」
Chloe:「Okay . They interview the staff or the patients yet ?」
Ella:「No , not yet . It 's a psychiatric hospital , so the staff did n't want the patients wigging out over the dead body . They 've been busy moving everyone to a different floor .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I love the mentally ill . I mean , who is n't amused by someone who thinks they 're Elvis or Napoleon or Wesley Snipes ?」
Chloe:「Who found the body ?」
Daniel:「God .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah ! See ? !」
Daniel:「God Johnson , he 's a patient . He 's right in there . The guy actually thinks he 's God . He changed his name and everything .」
Chloe:「Oh . You two should have a lot to talk about .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . I would like to have a chat with the Almighty .」
Daniel:「Cool your jets , man , all right ? There 's a whole bunch of bureaucratic hoops to jump through to set up an interview . The hospital administrator has all the info . Lucifer enters in an office to talk to God Johnson .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , hello , God .」
God Johnson:「Hello , my son .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , yes , I suppose that would be the standard way to greet your children . Nice touch .」
God Johnson:「What can I do for you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , it 's what I can do for you that 's exciting . See , I can reveal the truth about the Supreme Being you 've chosen to impersonate . I bet you wanted to be God because He 's benevolent , all - powerful , yada yada . But in actual fact , He 's a dick .」
God Johnson:「Look , if you want to be angry with me , you just go right on ahead . I can be anything you need me to be .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , enough of this idle chit - chat . Time to tell you what the charade 's really about . What do you desire ? Hmm ? To avoid a vengeful ex - wife ? Years of back taxes ? What 's your game ? Lucifer is using is power on God Johnson , it 's not working .」
God Johnson:「Is this a staring contest ? 'Cause , you know , I 'm pretty good at those .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「How is this possible ? Oh , right , yes , I bet you 're on some really amazing drugs , are n't you ? If so , share - zies . A nurse enters .」
Nurse:「You 're not supposed to be in here .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , never mind . I 'm done with this fraud , anyway .」
God Johnson:「It was real good seeing you , Samael .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What did you say ? Dad ? Lucifer talks with Amenadiel about God Johnson at the penthouse .Has Dad ever visited Earth before ?」
Amenadiel:「Not that I 'm aware of . And besides , why would He do so now ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Mm . I do n't know , maybe because we 're plotting to overthrow Him .」

Amenadiel:「Even so , Luci , that 's not the way Dad operates . If He has a problem , He sends an emissary , like me , or maybe a burning bush .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So how does this God Johnson know Samael , hmm ? My name .」
Amenadiel:「Oh , wait , I know .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You do ?」
Amenadiel:「The Internet ! It 's truly amazing what you can find online . Have you seen that video with the cat that jumps inside the box ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Very funny , but I did n't even introduce myself as Lucifer . And there 's something strange about ... I ca n't explain it .」
Amenadiel:「Because it 's just crazy talk coming from a mentally ill human .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , there might be another reason .」
Amenadiel:「Right . What 's that ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , Earth is His favourite toy . Maybe He got fed up of looking at it from afar . I mean , it 's not an entirely awful place . Even you have to admit that .」
Amenadiel:「Now you 're the one sounding crazy , Luci , because Earth ... Earth is nothing compared to Heaven .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , come now , brother . I think you 've grown to like the place , have n't you ? Come on , be honest . When we return to Heaven , there must be something that you 're gon na miss , eh ? Or someone , maybe ? Someone in tight leather pants with a penchant for knives ? I 'm referring to Maze , of course . Chloe , Lucifer and Ella are at the lab .」
Ella:「Come on , guys . Is it really so crazy ? I mean , what if God was one of us ?」
Chloe:「Just a slob , like one of us .」
Ella:「Exactly . Or just a ...」
Chloe:「A stranger on a bus .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「My father would never use public transport . That song is completely unrealistic .」
Ella:「What song ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「The song I hate almost as much as I hate these hypocrites , like God Johnson .」
Chloe:「Hypocrite ? Hmm , I do n't know . I see some similarities between the two of you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「That man is not my father .」

Ella:「Well , good thing , 'cause he might be our killer . Whaaat ? Oh , my God , Ella , how do you know that ? I 'll tell you how I know that , because our victim was bald . It 's very hard to get prints off a body , so I whipped out the ultraviolet alternate light source , and ... Boom , complete set on the victim 's noggin . They match one Earl Johnson , wealthy oil magnate from Odessa , Texas .」
Chloe:「Huh . It says here his wife committed him a few months ago after he gave all of his money away and started calling himself " God . " Mr. Johnson never said that he touched the victim 's body .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Left out the killing part as well . And proving he 's the killer is the perfect way to expose his false idolatry . Right , shall we ?」
Chloe:「No , we sha n't . Because you spoke to him without permission , I had to apply for a special hearing just to interview him . That 'll take at least a few days , so thank you for that . Lucifer enters at the hospital with a bag .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hello , there . I 'd like a suite for the evening , please . Preferably one with a view .」

Receptionist:「Are you joking ? This is a psychiatric hospital .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Apologies , I 'm skipping ahead . Uh , I am the one and only Lucifer Morningstar ... The Devil . Dark Lord ? Oh , for goodness sake , Beelzebub ! Look , I clearly need to be committed right away .」
Receptionist:「Yeah , we 're at near capacity , pal . So unless you 're a danger to yourself or others ... Lucifer grabs the receptionist .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「How 's that ?」
Receptionist:「Great .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Lovely . Daniel opens the fridge at the station .」
Daniel:「Dammit ! Who stole my pudding again ? Huh ? Markowitz ?」
Charlotte:「Want a taste ?」
Daniel:「Do n't you have better things to do than to raid our fridge ?」
Charlotte:「I was about to leave this place altogether , but I hit an unexpected snag ... Now I need to distract myself with something ... Hello , something .」
Daniel:「You know , just in case I 'm giving off an " I have zero self - respect " vibe , let me make it clear ... Hands off . I 'd rather sit at home alone , and in the dark , than to hang out with you .」

Charlotte:「Sassy . I like it . Lucifer goes to see patients .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Deal me in , gentlemen . Oh , and lady .」
Tourette:「Buy in 's ten thousand big ones .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , right , high stakes . I like it .」
Tourette:「Pig farts ! Crash and burn .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , I see , you 're one of those . Right .」
Lady:「200 .」
Dale:「I swear , I am gon na stab you in the eye if you do not stop dealing me crap ! Call .」
Pete:「I 'm out .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Um , ten thousand , all in .」
Lady:「Fold .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What do you know about God Johnson ?」
Pete:「I like fire .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , never mind .」
Moustache:「Maybe I can help . I did see him perform a miracle .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Really ?」
Moustache:「He scored me an extra Jell - O at snack time . Shh .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Useless . Royal flush .」
Dale:「Cheater !」

Tourette:「Red pubic hair !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Mm - hmm . Lucifer catches a pant with his face .」
Dr. Garrity:「Billy , what did I tell you about throwing your underwear ?」
Billy:「They 're not mine .」
Dr. Garrity:「Really ? 'Cause you 're naked .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I 'm more of a boxer briefs guy , but thank you .」
Dr. Garrity:「Sorry about that . You must be Lucifer . I 'm Dr. Garrity .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh . Yes .」
Dr. Garrity:「Can we talk later ? I have to get him to his electroshock treatment .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Really ?」
Dr. Garrity:「Just kidding .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes .」
Dr. Garrity:「You , this way . Come .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Very good .」
Dr. Garrity:「Let 's go find you some pants . God Johnson left .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What the hell . Lucifer finds God Johnson . He is killing someone .Aha ! Of course , you 're the murderer . Right , suppose I should thwart you now . Off to jail , cowboy . Lucifer stops God Johnson .」

God Johnson:「No , please , I have to save her .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What do you mean , save her ? God Johnson heals the lady .It really is you ... You son of a bitch . Lucifer hits God Johnson . Chloe visits Lucifer at the hospital .」
Chloe:「Why the hell would you get yourself committed ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I did it to help the investigation . Hey . What do you think ? It 's a good likeness , is n't it ?」
Chloe:「That 's it , I 'm pulling the plug . I 'm getting you out of here , now .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no , no , no . You were the one who said it would be difficult to interview God Johnson . So , I took some initiative . I went undercover . You must admit having an inside man could be quite effective .」
Chloe:「So , you 're doing this just to help the case ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , there may also be some personal issues I 'd like to explore with Mr. Johnson . But yes , the main reason I came was to prove he 's the killer .」
Chloe:「Is that why you punched him ? To force a confession ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Not exactly , but he had it coming . You see , Detective , it turns out , he may actually be my father after all .」
Chloe:「You 've decided that the lead suspect in this investigation may be your father ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I know that God Johnson is not the killer .」
Chloe:「And you know that because ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Because another patient was attacked last night and I saw God Johnson heal her . And here 's me being super - duper helpful」
Chloe:「Great . Who is it ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Santa Claus . Chloe and Dr. Garrity are talking in the court .」
Chloe:「He 's always been ... Quirky , but now , he 's ... I - I do n't know . I 'm - I 'm worried about him .」
Dr. Garrity:「Well , Lucifer certainly is an interesting case , but I ca n't really discuss the , uh , specifics of his diagnosis . Now , is he your , um ... Uh , fiancé ? I mean , uh , boyfriend ?」
Chloe:「No . Lucifer 's a co - worker .」

Dr. Garrity:「Good , good . Well ... I 'm sorry . I mean , that 's good to know . That 's , um , information , which is helpful , 'cause it 's informative .」
Chloe:「Right . Yes , of course , yes .」
Nurse Kipsy:「Dr. Garrity ? It 's time for music therapy .」
Dr. Garrity:「Thank you , Nurse Kipsy .」
Chloe:「I should get going anyhow .」
Dr. Garrity:「Well , listen , um , if maybe , uh , if you want to talk some more , about Lucifer or , uh , anything else , uh , feel free , uh , to give me a call . My cell phone number 's there .」
Chloe:「Thank you .」
Dr. Garrity:「Okay . Chloe 's phone rings .」
Chloe:「Hey , Maze . What 's up ? Lucifer goes to talk to God Johnson .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'll give you one chance to apologize .」
God Johnson:「Apologize ? You punched me . Tell you what I can do」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Taking the high ground , are we ? Magnificent . Well , I may have struck the latest blow , but that is only in response to the litany of offenses that you , dear old Dad , have bestowed upon me .」
God Johnson:「So you believe me ? Good . Tell me , just what is it you think I 've done ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , we 're going there , are we ? Right , let 's see . Um , casting me into Hell for eternity because you have n't got the balls to get your own cowardly hands dirty . Manipulating me with the Detective , giving me the illusion of control . You are a ... Patronizing , sinister , helicopter parent !」
God Johnson:「So you think you have no free will .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Every bad thing that 's happened throughout eternity is your doing , not mine ! It 's all part of " God 's Plan . " Even Mum 's coming here and manipulation of me was part of it .」
God Johnson:「Your mother 's here ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh ! Look who cares now .」

God Johnson:「Oh , my . Oh , well , that is something . I still remember the first moment we met ... Mmm . There was nothing , just darkness and ... Then she appeared ... It did not take long for us to light up the universe .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Much as I 'm enjoying this trip down memory lane , I want an apology ... Nay . Nay , I demand penance . You must atone for what you 've done .」
God Johnson:「Now , that 's not the Samael I remember .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No . No , Dad , this is who you made me when you cast me away ! Now apologize ! Lucifer 's eyes light . Linda enters in the office .」
Linda:「Uh , Lucifer ? Chloe is at the phone with Maze . Maze is at Lux .」
Maze:「Guy sounds like he wants to bang .」
Chloe:「He 's Lucifer 's doctor , Maze .」
Maze:「So what ? Doctors do n't want to get laid ?」
Chloe:「Does everything always have to be about s*x with you ?」
Maze:「Yeah .」
Chloe:「He was just trying to be helpful .」
Maze:「We should invite him on the booze cruise .」
Chloe:「What booze cruise ?」

Maze:「Tonight . I had a friend set up a yacht . You know , it 'll be like a hip - hop video . You said you wanted to expand our circle of friends .」
Chloe:「That 's not what I meant at all .」
Maze:「Oh . You want to ride solo with Dr. McHotty . I can get behind that . Or on top , dealer 's choice . I 'm kidding . Okay , I 'll set it all up . You wo n't have to lift a finger . Let me help you .」
Chloe:「I do n't want , nor need , your help with setting up a date . I 'm good .」
Maze:「Why not ? You and I are flowing , Chlo . Same page .」
Chloe:「Nope . Different books altogether .」
Maze:「You crack me up , Decker . Ella is singing at her lab . Chloe enters .」
Ella:「Oh , my God , Chloe , this song is so good .」
Chloe:「Yeah , yeah . People seemed to really like it ... In 1995 .」
Ella:「Oh , my God , and the music video .」
Chloe:「Uh ... Oh .」
Ella:「What 's going on ?」
Chloe:「So , um , by chance , have you found any evidence pointing to , um ... Santa Claus ?」
Ella:「I was gon na ask you the exact same thing .」
Chloe:「Really ?」
Ella:「Yes . Long white hair . Found it on the victim 's clothes . Was n't sure what it was , but yeah , totally screams Santa . I 'll have it tested ASAP .」
Chloe:「I could see if you 're mentally troubled , you see someone with long white hair commit a crime , you could call him Santa Claus . Right ? Chloe is looking for the patient 's pictures .
 Kind of like this guy .」
Ella:「Uh , yeah . Dude looks exactly like the creepy drunk Santa at the mall when I was a kid .」
Chloe:「Too bad setting up an interview would take forever ... Without a doctor 's permission .」
Ella:「Ooh .」
Chloe:「A doctor 's permission ... Chloe phones Maze .」
Maze:「Yeah ?」
Chloe:「Hey , Maze . You still want to help me ? Lucifer pushes Linda in a wheelchair in the hospital 's hallway .」
Linda:「Okay , so that was " God " God back there ? As in capital " G " ? I did n't bow .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I should have bowed . You should have spit in His face .」

Linda:「Yeah , I 'm not gon na do that .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Then you 're no use to me , Doctor . What on earth are you doing here anyway ?」
Linda:「Chloe sent me to check on you because she was worried . But now , I 'm worried . Please tell me you 're not still planning on having your mom and God destroy each other .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Do n't be silly . That plan wo n't work anymore .」
Linda:「Oh . Oh , good . Maybe I should 've curtsied .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Unfortunately , Dad seems to be soft on Mum . Like he still has feelings for her . Which gives me another way to punish them , far more tortuous than death .」
Linda:「And we 're back to " not good . "」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no , no , no , this is better . And you , my dear doctor , are going to help me . Lucifer has a reunion with all the patients .Okay , you 've all been chosen to help with a very special mission called " Operation Help Lucifer Escape from the Hospital . "」
God Johnson:「Mm , that 's a little on the nose , son .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「You are literally the judgiest person in the universe . You know that , Dad ?」
Pete:「Escape ? But we get pudding here .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , look , I know the puddings are good , but there must be more that you all desire . I mean , come on , Pete . I know desserts are n't the only thing that tickle your fancy , are they ? Hmm ?」
Pete:「I do want to watch it all burn .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Lucifer lights a lighter .Then fire away .」
Pete:「Oh ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Go , go , go , go , go . Right .」
Lady:「I want to turn the lights on ... And off .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Good ! Go ! I love a good rave . Who 's next ?」
Billy:「I want to throw underwear at heads .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Laundry room ! Right ? Go forth , people . Come on . Liberate yourselves . Play to your strengths .」
God Johnson:「So this is your big plan for busting us out of here . Encouraging a man to steal underwear ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no . That was just for fun . The fire alarm rings .That is how we 're gon na escape from here . Come on . The patients do whatever they want . Lucifer and God Johnson are hiding near a way out .」
God Johnson:「All right . It was a pretty good plan .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Thank you . You 've got a , um ... Hmm ? It 's just ... Come here . Linda opens the door .Ah , right . Uh , Linda , Dad . Dad , Linda .」
God Johnson:「A handshake'll do , my beautiful child .」
Linda:「Okay .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , are we finished ? Come on , let 's get a wriggle on . Let 's go . They escape . Chloe gets prepare for her date .」
Maze:「I 've seen your mom dress sluttier than this .」
Chloe:「Okay , Maze , this is an interrogation disguised as a casual dinner . There 's no need to get dolled up . Please do n't tell me you made reservations at somewhere fancy .」
Maze:「Opposite of fancy . It 's here .」
Chloe:「Here . Why ?」

Maze:「Well , duh , your bedroom 's here . Where else are we gon na have s*x ?」
Chloe:「For the last time , Maze , we 're not having a threesome .」
Maze:「I 'm okay to watch . Someone knocks on the door .
 Showtime . It 's Amenadiel .」
Chloe:「Oh , an orgy ? Definitely off the table . Charlotte is at Lux .」
Charlotte:「Lucifer ? What is it you wanted to show me ? The music and lights turn on .」
God Johnson:「Well , now . You are as radiant as the moment we first met . Linda and Lucifer are spying .」
Linda:「Explain to me what 's going on , please .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm trying to recreate their first date .」
Linda:「You 're ... What ? Wait . You 're trying to Parent Trap God and the Divine Goddess ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? It worked in the movie . Do n't you see ? With Dad here on Earth , I do n't need the Flaming Sword or a trip to Heaven to exact my revenge .」
Linda:「Okay , but how is having them fall in love again revenge ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , trust me , Doctor , after a brief re - honeymoon period , they 'll start torturing each other like they always do . Mum and Dad together are their own worst punishment . It 's genius .」
Charlotte:「Do I know you ?」
God Johnson:「Only since the beginning of time .」
Charlotte:「What is this ? Where 's Lucifer ?」
God Johnson:「Aw , who knows . That son of ours is unpredictable , to say the least .」
Charlotte:「Husband ? Is this really you ?」
God Johnson:「In the flesh . Charlotte hits God Johnson in the nuts .
 Oh ! God ...」
Charlotte:「You put me in Hell , you b*st*rd . At Chloe and Maze 's apartment , the none date continues .」
Dr. Garrity:「Uh , it 's a great pizza . Uh , never tried pineapple and jalapeño before .」
Chloe:「Yes , I know . Uh , Maze has very eccentric tastes . I would , I would 've made something if I had notice . You know . Any notice .」
Dr. Garrity:「No , no . I - It 's great . You know , I like trying new things . Meeting new people .」
Amenadiel:「Are you gon na eat that ?」

Dr. Garrity:「N - No . No . So , um , Maze . Uh , where are you from ?」
Maze:「Hell . By the way , I changed the sheets on Decker 's bed . She 's good to go .」
Chloe:「Okay . Excuse me . Maze , can I speak to you for a second ?」
Maze:「Oh .」
Amenadiel:「I like the shape of your head . Maze and Chloe are talking apart .」
Chloe:「What the hell are you doing ? I 'm not Lucifer . I do n't need what he needs . What I need is a friend .」
Maze:「You want your privacy . Gotcha , Decker ... Psst . Amenadiel joins Maze . Chloe comes back to the doctor .」
Chloe:「Excuse my roommate . Sh ...」
Dr. Garrity:「No , that 's , uh , it 's nothing compared to the , uh , intriguing folks I deal with at work .」
Chloe:「I can imagine . I - I actually would love to hear about that . Maze and Amenadiel are talking in the kitchen .」
Maze:「Why are you here ? I was n't planning on having s*x with you again , but ... Whatever , right ? At least someone 's getting laid .」
Amenadiel:「I 'm not here for s*x , Maze .」
Maze:「Okay . Then , what ?」
Amenadiel:「I just ... There 's not much time before we 're gone .」
Maze:「What , are you going on a vacation ?」
Amenadiel:「I 'm not sure I 'd call what Lucifer , Mom and I are doing going a vacation , but ... Lucifer did n't tell you .」
Maze:「Tell me what ? I told you never to lie to me again , Amenadiel . Tell me what ?」
Amenadiel:「We 're all going back to Heaven .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Chloe asks question to the Doctor Garrity .
Chloe:「So tell me , how , how do you have your job and stay sane ?」
Dr. Garrity:「Oh , uh ... Years of practice , um ... Drugs . Mostly drugs .」
Chloe:「Mm .」
Dr. Garrity:「But , um , but , seriously , um , I just ... I try and see beneath the DSM . Try to remember that each one of them is a person .」
Chloe:「Yeah . I , uh , I saw this older gentleman the other day . Uh , long white hair . White beard . He reminded me of my crazy Uncle Al .」
Dr. Garrity:「You must be talking about Dale .」
Chloe:「Yeah , what 's his deal ? Is he one of the violent ones ? Um ...」

Dr. Garrity:「Uh ... Um , what kind of civil servant are you , exactly ? Doctor Garrity receives a text .
 Wow . Well , this evening just got even more interesting . Apparently , your co - worker , Lucifer , just escaped and took God Johnson with him . Charlotte asks Lucifer some explanation .」
Charlotte:「What 's he doing here , Lucifer ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I do n't know . You married him .」
Charlotte:「Well , it kind of ruins our plans to storm the Gates of Heaven and destroy him .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I 'm thinking we might not need to do that anymore .」
Charlotte:「I will never forgive him , if that 's what you 're getting at .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「The point is , Mum , that I think Dad ... Sincerely misses you .」
God Johnson:「Well , of course I do . How could I not ? Look at you . An absolute vision . Glowing , even now .」
Charlotte:「Oh , you have no idea .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm just gon na ... Doctor .」
God Johnson:「For the life of me , I ca n't even remember why we were fighting .」
Charlotte:「The flames ? Eternal damnation ? The ... Kind of hard to forget .」

God Johnson:「I am so sorry that you suffered .」
Charlotte:「Well , I su ... Suppose I should apologize for trying to destroy your precious toy with floods and with plagues and whatnot . I guess humanity is n't entirely awful . They did make vodka . Roller coasters . Triple crème Brie .」
God Johnson:「You hear about dancing ?」
Charlotte:「Yes , I actually did some of that on a table , once . Lucifer turns on the music .」
God Johnson:「Would you do me this honour ? They dance .」
Linda:「You sure it 's revenge you 're after ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Of course it is . What else would it be ?」
God Johnson:「What 's the matter ?」
Charlotte:「This . I did n't think this was possible . It was n't part of the plan .」
God Johnson:「So , maybe ... Maybe we make a new plan . This time , we make it together . They kiss . Chloe enters .」
Chloe:「Lucifer !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Detective !」
Chloe:「Seriously ? Some guys take God Johnson .
 Okay , outside now . Lucifer is back in his room at the hospital .
 First you check yourself into a mental hospital , only to kidnap another patient and escape . Lucifer , how is that helping ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , i - if you must know , God Johnson is indeed my father , and , uh , I needed to do a little matchmaking .」
Chloe:「With him and Charlotte Richards ? I mean , I 'm scared to know how she ties into all this .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , never mind that . What about our killer ? Hmm ? Did you find proof of Santa Claus ?」
Nurse Kipsy:「Time for your meds .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ooh , lovely . Thank you . Right . Unexpected perk of the place .」
Chloe:「Maybe it 's a good thing there 's another day on your 72-hour hold . You know ? Maybe being here is the best thing for you right now .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay . Chloe knocks on Dr. Garrity 's door office .」
Chloe:「Hey . I just wanted to say that I 'm sorry I lied . I , um ... Sometimes with work , I get shortsighted . And I never wanted to ...」
Dr. Garrity:「Use me ?」
Chloe:「Yeah .」

Dr. Garrity:「If you had just been up - front with me , I would 've told you that Dale , the guy you were asking about , he 's been here for 15 years . Yeah , he can seem a bit prickly , but he 's a teddy bear . He 's got no violent tendencies . There is just no way he 'd kill someone .」
Chloe:「All right .」
Dr. Garrity:「Legally , I ca n't let you look at Dale 's medical file ... But , um ... What happens when I turn away is , um , out of my hands .」
Chloe:「Thank you .」
Dr. Garrity:「Yeah . Ooh , look , a Nigerian prince needs my help . Wow .」
Chloe:「Thanks ... Santa Claus ? Chloe and Garrity are walking .」
Dr. Garrity:「Okay , so what 's the big deal ? Someone dresses up as Santa every year . Patients love it .」
Chloe:「Yeah , well , that someone could be the killer .」
Dr. Garrity:「But a different person does it every year . Even I did it a few years back . Okay , we store the , uh , costume in here . Garrity opens a cabinet . Chloe takes a box .」
Chloe:「Wait , wait , wait ... Where 's the beard ? The red hat ?」
Dr. Garrity:「It should be in there .」
Chloe:「Okay , two things . Who else has a key to that cabinet ? And ... I need you to put these on . Lucifer is junk . Santa Klaus enters in his room .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ooh , ooh . These drugs are a bit different , are n't they ? 'Cause I ca n't feel my tongue . Oh . Hello , pretty kitty , kitty , kitty , kitty ... Santa , you 're here as well ? Oh , I 'm afraid I 've been a naughty boy . Santa Klaus knocks him out . Nurse Kipsy pushes Lucifer in the hospital .You may want to see this , I am actually the Devil .」

Nurse Kipsy:「No , you 're not the Devil . You 're just a man who 's delusional in a mental hospital . You made it all up .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So ... I 'm not the Devil . I 'm just a man who 's delusional . I made it all up ... I made it all up ! I made it all up .」
God Johnson:「Hello , son .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Dad ! See ? I am the Devil . Nice try , Santa .」
Nurse Kipsy:「Tell me what you told the police .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Only the truth . That you , Mr. Kringle , are a cold - blooded killer .」
Nurse Kipsy:「What else ?」
God Johnson:「What do you want to know , Nurse Kipsy ?」
Nurse Kipsy:「Why are n't the drugs working on you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , it 's obvious , is n't it ? It 's because he 's God ! Uh , oh . Hey . Hey , they should n't be working on me , either , but ... Is the Detective still here ? That might explain it .」
Nurse Kipsy:「Shut up .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay .」

Nurse Kipsy:「Does n't matter . Now you know it 's me , I have to kill you both . Chloe is still with the doctor .」
Dr. Garrity:「What 's that for ?」
Chloe:「A long shot ... Chloe gets a hand print .
 Okay . She takes a picture .」
Dr. Garrity:「That 's got to be the coolest thing I 've ever seen . I'd - I'd applaud , you know , if I were n't cuffed .」
Chloe:「Sorry about that . It 's just a precaution .」
Dr. Garrity:「Hey , I get it .」
Chloe:「Bingo .」
Dr. Garrity:「Wow . That was fast .」
Chloe:「Yeah , you do n't know Ella . The print belongs to one Patricia Hightower .」
Dr. Garrity:「We have a patient named Sue Hightower , the one God Johnson attacked .」
Chloe:「Okay . I 'm waiting on a DMV photo . She looks familiar .」
Dr. Garrity:「That 's Nurse Kipsy . Nurse Kipsy explains why she kills the orderly .」
Nurse Kipsy:「I changed my name so no one would know she 's my mother ... She was a raging bitch my entire life ... Controlling , manipulative ... She tortured me ... So I decided to torture her . Pumped her full of drugs , drove her crazy .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Preaching to the choir , sister . Evil parents deserve to be punished . You had every right to destroy her . But what about the orderly ?」

Nurse Kipsy:「He found out what I was doing . He ... Said he was gon na turn me in . I had no choice .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , he was innocent and you killed him , so I am gon na have to punish you ... Why are n't I pulverizing you ?」
Nurse Kipsy:「Uh , one because you 're a nutjob . And two , because I switched out your normal meds with a massive dose of Haldol . You know ... They do n't normally let patients wear belts . Suicide risk . So , thank you for getting a special dispensation for yours because now I got it . God is gon na kill Lucifer , then hang himself ... Kind of poetic , do n't you think ? Gon na go find a ladder .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , a ladder .」
God Johnson:「Now , I had no idea you were so angry with me .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Really ? 'Cause I ... I 've been pretty up - front about it .」
God Johnson:「But to want to destroy me ? That 's pretty serious . You mind telling me why ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Because ... Because I 'm your son . And ... You rejected me .」

God Johnson:「Oh ... Well , then I guess I ca n't say as I blame you . Fact of the matter is , I do n't even remember why I was ever so angry with you to begin with ... For what it 's worth ... I am sorry . I truly am ... And I am proud of you , Samael . I am proud of the man you 've become ... So , what do you say ... Wait , no . Not ... Not my belt . You ca n't take my belt . It 's mine . Chloe arrives .」
Chloe:「Patricia Hightower , LAPD . Do n't move .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Detective .」
Chloe:「You okay ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Honestly ... I 've never felt better .」
Earl Johnson:「What this ? What - What just happened ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What are you talking about ? We just beat Santa .」
Earl Johnson:「Who are you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It 's me , Dad . Lucifer .」
Earl Johnson:「Does someone want to tell me what the hell is going on ? Get me out of these damn things . Lucifer watches the belt .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「" The piece is here . " At the penthouse , Lucifer reunites the sword and the missing piece .Well , what do you know ?」
Amenadiel:「It fits perfectly .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I think this is what Uriel was trying to tell me ... Just before he died , he whispered in my ear , " The piece is here . " I mean , I thought it was nonsense , but ... This must be why the sword was n't working . It was n't complete .」
Amenadiel:「Dad supposedly destroyed the Flaming Sword after the rebellion . So , are you saying he just broke it into two pieces ? Azrael 's blade ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「And this . Yes , which somehow ended up on Earth . Its power probably awakened when Azrael 's blade ended up here , too .」
Amenadiel:「Which is when Mr. Johnson must 've stumbled upon it . But why did he think he was father ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I mean , Azrael 's blade inspired death . Maybe this piece activated the opposite ... Life . Healing . Gave him the power and knowledge of the divine .」
Amenadiel:「And when he found out that he could heal like that , he ... He thought he was God .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「What 's more important is that now the sword 's complete , we can get on with our plan . The piece falls down from the sword .So ... The ... Or not . Maybe there 's another piece missing .」
Amenadiel:「Or maybe a dragon has to breathe on it . Who knows ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , maybe Mum does . Did ... Where is she , anyway ? Charlotte knocks on Daniel 's door .」
Daniel:「I thought I made myself clear .」
Charlotte:「I kissed a man today .」
Daniel:「What 's your deal ?」
Charlotte:「I thought he was my ex - husband . When I kissed him , I realized it was n't him . And the strangest part is , I do n't know what 's more upsetting ... That it was n't him ? Or that I ... I wished it was .」
Daniel:「Wow .」
Charlotte:「I just do n't want to be alone . Could we just hold each other ? Please ? With your pants off , of course . Lucifer and Earl Johnson are waiting for a cab .」
Earl Johnson:「I still ca n't believe I gave all my money away .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , if it 's any consolation , you have n't exactly been yourself of late .」

Earl Johnson:「Yeah .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Listen , I wanted to ask you ... What 's the last thing you remember ?」
Earl Johnson:「I was in New Mexico for work , I was walking through this Navajo gift shop . I saw a cool belt buckle , so I picked it up , and ... Next thing I knew , I woke up strapped to a gurney next to you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Lucky you .」
Earl Johnson:「Yeah . Hey , they , uh , they say we was arguing . If I did or said something to upset you , I apologize .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no , you were quite lovely actually . For a brief moment , I thought you were my father . A man for whom I harbour a great deal of resentment . And you said some things that I think I wish he 'd always said to me , so for that I thank you .」
Earl Johnson:「Well , I guess even a blind squirrel catches a nut every now and then ... You take care of yourself . Earl gets in the cab .
 Hey , does this mean you 're not angry at your dad anymore ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「No , I 'm not angry . I 'm bloody furious . 'Cause I realized that my father would never say those things to me . And for that ... I hate him all the more .」

narration:Lee is driving in the desert . He is trying to escape from cops . He curbs when he sees Lucifer on the road .
Lucifer Morningstar:「Are you blind ? Lucifer opens the truck . He wants to get in but he is stopped by his wings . He hides his wings and gets in the truck .The day I 've had , I tell you . Right . I 'd like a ride to Los Angeles , please . I ... Oh . Dearie me . At least I 'm healing fast . Do you have any aloe vera ?」
Lee:「I ai n't going back to L.A.」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ... Hold on , you 're not a real armoured truck driver , are you ? Wait . Do n't I know you from somewhere ? Oh , yes , yes . You 're that jewellery thief , the one who left in nothing but his manties .」
Lee:「You ! You got me put in jail !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , well , I think that one 's on you , sir . I was n't the one with the gun and the ski mask .」
Lee:「I 'm not gon na let you screw this up for me again . It 's time for you to go .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , you are a tenacious one , I 'll give you that . Respect .」
Lee:「You one crazy - ass bitch . Now , get out of the truck . Lee threatens Lucifer with his gun .
 Now .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Look ... I know you do n't want to shoot me , Mr .... What 's your name ?」
Lee:「Said out , bitch .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Mr. Said Out Bitch , tell me , what is it you really desire ?」
Lee:「I just want to get out of here , man .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , freedom , of course . That has n't changed . They ears the siren 's cops .Well , then we might be able to help each other . The cops are driving to the truck .」
Cop:「Suspect heading towards us . Prepare the blockade . They park their cars and stop the truck .」
Cops:「I ca n't see though . Eyes on . Easy , easy . Do n't move !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hello , there .」
Cop:「Hands in the air !」

Lucifer Morningstar:「That wo n't be necessary . I 'm Lucifer Morningstar , consultant for the LAPD . I 've apprehended this stolen vehicle and all of its contents . You 're welcome .」
Cop:「Hands up ! Down on the ground !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I 'd really rather not . I 've just got into some clean clothes .」
Cop:「Partner name and badge number !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , for goodness ' sake . Detective Decker . I 'm afraid I do n't know her badge number .」
Cop:「Detective Decker .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But I 'd say with certainty she 's a 34-B , if that helps . Hot as hell out here , is n't it ?」
Cop:「Checks out .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , of course it does ... I 'm never wrong when it comes to cup size . Okay .」
Cop:「Hold on ! What 'd you do with the real thief ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , unfortunately , he got away . But not to worry . I do n't think he 'll be bothering you for a very , very long time . Lee is running through the desert with a slip . Benjamin pushes Linda 's wheelchair to Lucifer 's penthouse .Ah . Good . You 're here . Well , I was n't sure what you fancied , so I ordered a little of everything . Thank you , Benjamin .」
Linda:「Lucifer , what is all of this ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「This is your new wellness regime . I thought since I was responsible for your current state , the least I could do is heal you . And yes , Benjamin is part of the package . He 'll be back after dark . Oh , well , do n't worry , he 'll be gentle .」
Linda:「Mm .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? I just want to take care of you . Is that so hard to believe ?」
Linda:「Yes . Out with it . What 's going on ? Lucifer shows Linda his wings .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Talk about insult to injury .」
Linda:「I - I - I did n't know that they could grow back . Are wings like ... Body hair ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「No . Do n't be so ridiculous . This is Dad 's latest stunt . A celestial spanking , if you will . I suppose that 's what I get for giving Mum her own universe .」
Linda:「Holy crap !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Exactly . Mm . But it 's no biggie . I cut them off once , and I can cut them off again . Now , I 'd have Maze do it , but she 's off bounty hunting again , and ... Well , I thought , what , with your medical expertise and training ...」
Linda:「Even if I was that kind of doctor , I 'm pretty sure they 're not teaching wing - ectomies in med school .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no , no , it 's quite simple ... It 's just snip , snip , and Bob 's your uncle .」
Linda:「Well , God 's your Father , Lucifer . And things are never simple with Him . You do n't know why for sure your wings have returned .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「They 've returned because Dad is a control freak . He 's pissed off that He ca n't get Mum back , so He stuck my wings back on . But I am not His Mr. Potato Head . And do n't worry , I fully plan to track down Dad 's emissary on Earth , and give him a return message . But for now ...」
Linda:「Emissary ? You think God sent someone to do this to you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Never mind all that . Right now I need you to help me . So come on , chop - chop .」
Linda:「No . As your therapist , I 'm sorry , but I ca n't do this .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , as a friend , then .」
Linda:「Yes , as a friend who got caught in the cross fire , I beg you , please , think this through before you do something rash .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ...」
Linda:「I almost died because of your family drama .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right .」
Linda:「But you can definitely text me Ben 's number , though .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay . Oh , gosh , it 's hard enough just to scratch your own back . Lucifer comes at the station .Right , it 's okay , it 's okay , you can call off the search party . I 'm unharmed .」
Daniel:「' Sup , wimp ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Detective , Detective , I am so sorry . You must have been so worried in my absence .」
Chloe:「Your absence ? I saw you two days ago . I thought you were just avoiding meeting the new lieutenant .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「New who ? Never mind , I do n't care . We 've got something much more important we need to discuss .」
Chloe:「Oh , is this about the message you left ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Message ? Oh , right . Uh , well , we will talk about that later , but right now we need to figure out who kidnapped me .」
Chloe:「Kidnapped you ? Okay , I 'll play . Who kidnapped you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I do n't know .」
Chloe:「Well , what did they look like ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I do n't know . L - L - Look , I 'm fairly certain that my Father 's behind it .」

Chloe:「Your father kidnapped you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , no , not Him personally . God never gets His own hands dirty , does He ?」
Chloe:「Uh - huh .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You do n't believe me .」
Chloe:「Uh - huh . Sorry . This is just a little far - fetched , even for you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Okay , fine . I 'll take you to the scene of the crime . Come on . Come on ! Chloe and Lucifer are in the desert .Yes , I 'm sure . It 's just ... Past this shrub .」
Chloe:「Well , I do n't see anything .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? I ... Ah ! Ha - ha ! Footprints .」
Chloe:「Those are mine .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh . Well ... Well , then the wind must have blown the crime scene bare , Detective , because I am not lying . Someone kidnapped me . I was outside the hospital , leaving you a message , and someone stashed me ...」

Chloe:「So this was about that message . Look , Lucifer , if you regret what you said , if this kidnapping tale is some elaborate distraction , you can just stop . All right ? You do n't need to tell me anything . I 'm no stranger to the drunken dial .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I have been known to avoid the issue at times , but that is not the case here . Detective , I swear , this is the scene of a despicable crime . Chloe sees something .What ?」
Chloe:「I ... I believe you .」
Ella:「Soaked in sweat , parched and starving , he scraped , clawed his way towards the light , but , ironically , the only thing stronger than his desperate desire to live was ... The sun ... Its relentless heat literally cooking him , until one last ... Breath ... And he 's gone .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Tragic . But , now , can we please get on with it ? Whoever killed this dehydrated sap is clearly responsible for my devil - napping . I mean , the location 's far too coincidental . Who is he , and what does he have to do with me ?」
Chloe:「Steve Banales . Owner and CEO of Angelette Hotel .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Steve Banales . That 's strange . Never heard of him . You 'd think we 'd have some kind of connection . I suppose we 'll get more answers once we find our assailant .」
Deputy:「Hey , Jerry . I think I found some footprints .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? No , those are mine . Amateurs . How did we get stuck with the " B " team , anyway ?」
Chloe:「Lucifer , this is Lancaster PD . The crime scene is on the L.A. border , so they 're here helping .」
Ella:「I mean , I think they 're doing a great job .」
Daniel:「Geez . These Lancaster guys are a bunch of tools .」
Ella:「Oh .」
Daniel:「Speaking of tools , whoa , whoa . Whoa , hey , Detective ? Detective ? So , what 'd you find ?」
Sam:「Looks like a key chain .」
Daniel:「Hey , guys , look at this .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Finally . A clue . An " A " ? Right . Off we go , Ms. Lopez .」

Ella:「Oh , uh , hold up , bud . I need to do one more lap of the scene . Want to make sure we did n't miss anything . I mean , not that I do n't trust Lancaster . I just do n't want to disappoint our new lieutenant . Oh , my gosh , you guys , did I tell you that I saw Lieutenant Pierce speak at a conference last year ? " The Red Tape Beyond the Yellow Tape . " Riveting .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Sounds it .」
Chloe:「Yeah , you told us .」
Daniel:「Yup , you did .」
Ella:「Anyway , big fan . The guy is a serious rock star . I ca n't believe he transferred here . We are so lucky . And I hear he 's a total sweetie pants to boot . Marcus Pierce comes for the first time at the station .」
Marcus:「I 'm Lieutenant Marcus Pierce ... All right , back to it .」
Daniel:「Uh , Detective Daniel Espinoza . Heard a lot about you , Lieutenant , and I 'm really excited to work with you .」
Marcus:「I wish I could say the same . Are n't you that corrupt cop that got off easy ?」
Daniel:「Excuse me ?」
Marcus:「No . Excuse me . You must be Lucifer .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Morningstar . Pleasure .」
Marcus:「There was an investigation last year . We interviewed ... What was it ... 92 of your sexual partners ? I think I 'll refrain from physical contact if you do n't mind ... You do n't seem reckless . Narcissistic , hedonistic ... That I see .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , thank you very much .」
Marcus:「Not a compliment . Your file is as long as my Johnson .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh . Quick read then ?」
Marcus:「Hardly .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I , for one , do n't need a file to ascertain you have n't even had a snog in ages , have you ?」
Marcus:「Accurate .」
Chloe:「Okay ! Hi . I am Detective Decker .」
Marcus:「Lucifer 's partner . I know .」
Chloe:「Actually , he 's mine . Uh , uh , consultant , to be exact .」
Marcus:「That 's what I said .」
Chloe:「But , uh ...」
Ella:「Well ? Is n't he amazing ? We just had the best conversation over the doughnuts I brought for him ... Everyone , not just him . I 'm not kissing ass or anything .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Mm - hmm .」
Ella:「Doughnuts for everyone ! Doughnuts !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right .」
Chloe:「Wow .」
Daniel:「Wow .」
Amenadiel:「Lucifer . I 've been looking all over for you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , through here . Go . Amenadiel and Lucifer enter in the briefing room .」
Amenadiel:「So what happened ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It was terrible , Brother . I was kidnapped .」
Amenadiel:「No , Luci . I meant Mom .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah . Well , did n't you get my text ?」
Amenadiel:「What ? You mean the string of nonsensical emojis ? Fire , sword , doughnut , spaceman , clock , dancing lady , flashlight , thumbs up . How am I supposed to know what that means ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ignited the flaming sword , used it to cut a hole in space and time , Mum 's light flooded through it , then it closed up behind her . All good !」
Amenadiel:「Mom 's ... Mom is gone ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . Yes . I mean , she says good - bye forever , she loves you very much , et cetera , et cetera , but the good news is ... You get your necklace back . And we all know how attached to that you are . So , back to more current issues . Me and my kidnapping . Now , clearly Dad is behind it , but the question is , who 's his emissary , and how were they able to render me unconscious ? Either they used some kind of celestial weapon , or the detective was nearby . And if it 's the latter , then it has to be someone who knows she makes me vulnerable ... Hang on . The " A " on the key chain is for Amenadiel , is n't it ?」
Amenadiel:「What ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Of course . It 's you ! Now that God 's favourite son 's regained his powers , he 's back to being his little bitch .」
Amenadiel:「Luci , I did n't get my powers back . Yes , I was able to slow time , but ... Uh , that appears to have been a one - time thing .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But ... You have got your wings back , huh ?」
Amenadiel:「No . Not yet .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , is n't that ironic ? You want your wings back and did n't get them , and ... I ... Get whacked over the head and hauled out to the desert .」
Amenadiel:「That 's not ironic .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , not ironic ironic . More ... Alanis Morissette ironic . Anyway , the point is , I 'm sure your full powers will come back in no time . You probably just need ... A good nap . Or eat some mangos . I 've heard they work wonders . What ? Ella enters .」
Ella:「We got a suspect . Prints on the key chain . First , it looked like it had been wiped down . Then , I whipped out the colour fluorescent film , and whammo .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well done , Miss Lopez ...」
Ella:「Mm - hmm . Oh , sorry . We have n't officially met yet . I 'm Ella . Ella hugs Amenadiel .」
Amenadiel:「Amenadiel .」
Ella:「I mean , I 've seen you around , doing your handsome broody thing , but ... Anyway , any bro of Lucifer 's is a bro of mine ... Whoa . Someone works out . Now I know who carries the guns in the family .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , yes . Enough of that . We have a suspect . Shall we ? Oh , Brother ? About your problem ...」
Amenadiel:「Yeah .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I think I might have just the remedy . I 'll text you the info later .」
Amenadiel:「Words this time , please ! Chloe and Lucifer are walking in the street .」
Chloe:「Josh Hamid , the victim 's business partner . The two own this hotel .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , this is a mug shot . Has he got a record ?」
Chloe:「Yeah . Possession of an exotic animal . A tiger , I think .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , that 's illegal ? Too bad .」
Chloe:「Yeah , anyhow , looks like Josh and Steve both come from family money . Basically bought this hotel just to have a place to party .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Imagine , buying your own establishment just to justify your decadent lifestyle . It 's absurd .」
Chloe:「Yeah . Absurd ... Thank you . Lucifer and Chloe are looking for Josh Hamid on the balcony .
 Josh Hamid ?」
Josh Hamid:「Who wants to know ?」
Chloe:「Detective Decker , LAPD .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「I imagine you recognize me .」
Josh Hamid:「You got a nice set of cans for a cop .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Whilst I do n't disagree , that is incredibly disrespectful . Perhaps I should teach you some manners .」
Chloe:「Lucifer , I got this .」
Josh Hamid:「Got a nice ass , too .」
Chloe:「Yeah ? Well , I also got these , and your sorry ass is a suspect in the Steve Banales murder .」
Josh Hamid:「I told you Steve was up to something . You want to cuff me , honey ? You 're gon na have to catch me . Josh is running away . Chloe and Lucifer run after him .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Excuse me .」
Josh Hamid:「Oh , you 've got a gun . Scary . Hey , you tell Steve I am officially impressed .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You think this is funny ? ! Lucifer pushes Josh away out of the balcony .」
Chloe:「Lucifer !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , maybe it 's a bit funny . Josh lands in the pool . Josh is waiting for Chloe and Lucifer in the interview room .」
Chloe:「So , Josh ...」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Why did you kidnap me ? !」
Josh Hamid:「I swear , I 've never seen you before you tried to kill me today !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Really , Joshy .」
Chloe:「Excuse us .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ?」
Chloe:「What are you doing ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Consulting .」
Chloe:「Then consult less . So you say you do n't recognize Lucifer , but you do admit to knowing Steve Banales , correct ? Then did you do this to him ?」
Josh Hamid:「This is a joke , right ?」
Chloe:「We found this at the crime scene with your fingerprints all over it .」
Josh Hamid:「I did n't kill Steve , man ! I would never ! That 's the key I gave to the fake kidnappers .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Fake ?」
Josh Hamid:「Yeah . They get paid to abduct people . I hired them for Steve . It 's our thing .」
Chloe:「What ? To torture each other ?」
Josh Hamid:「No ! To pull pranks . The more money we made , the crazier the prank . The fake kidnapping was retaliation for the tiger Steve ... Put in my backyard .」

Chloe:「What 's the name of the company ?」
Josh Hamid:「Snatched . Super under the radar . I - I got the deluxe package .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah . Well , they delivered .」
Josh Hamid:「They were supposed to nab Steve for 48 hours , tie him up in a warehouse , stick him in the desert , and then drop him back at the hotel . When he did n't show , I just assumed he was ... Busy planning payback . It 's why I thought you were n't real cops . I mean , a guy named Lucifer and the chick from Hot Tub Hotel ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「High School . Hot Tub High School . She was n't in the sequel .」
Josh Hamid:「I 'm sorry . Anyway , can you blame me ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Look , here 's the thing , Joshy . I can assure you we are quite real , and by the looks of it , so are your kidnappers , so tell us what you know about this Snatched . Amenadiel enters in the penthouse .」
Amenadiel:「All right , Luci , I got your text . What 's this magical remedy of yours ?」
Remedy:「Hi . I 'm Remedy . I 'm here to rub you . Uh , give you a massage .」

Amenadiel:「Oh ... Well , why not ?」
Remedy:「Lovely . Um , please remove your clothing and get under the towel .」
Amenadiel:「We 're gon na need a bigger towel ... I know where they are . I 'll be right back . In the dressing , Amenadiel finds Lucifer 's wings . Chloe and Lucifer are at the lab .」
Ella:「Oh , man . I searched the IP address , like , a zillion times and it keeps pinging to some random Russian server .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Surely there 's some other way to track these miscreants . Something we missed at the crime scene perhaps ?」
Ella:「I wish . All we found there was that key chain and our second victim .」
Chloe:「Wait . Second victim ?」
Ella:「Leo . Once a vibrant rock squirrel . Now ... Roadkill . Judging from his time of death , about 16 hours before Steve died of dehydration . It 's pretty likely the kidnappers are the ones who ran him over .」
Chloe:「Mmhmm .」
Ella:「Poor guy never even saw it coming .」
Chloe:「So , did you lift any tire treads ?」

Ella:「Sure did . Leo was squashed by a Ryuk Road Crusher tire . Commercial grade . Only 850,000 sets produced .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「In the world ?」
Ella:「Nope . In L.A.」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , for goodness ' sakes .」
Chloe:「You know , there still is one angle that we have n't quite explored yet . And that is your connection to the case .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , and I was n't sure you thought there was one .」
Chloe:「Well , I 'm still not sure I do , but we 're stuck , so do you think your kidnapping was intended as a prank ? Or to actually hurt you , like Steve ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Definitely the latter . My Father is not a jokester .」
Chloe:「Right . Right . So , say your father did hire these fake kidnappers ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「He did .」
Chloe:「To ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hmm .」
Chloe:「Any idea why ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Of course . He 's angry that I gave Mum her own universe . I mean , nothing pisses God off more than exercising free will .」

Chloe:「I am trying to believe you here .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Something horrid happened to me and I woke up in the desert with my bloody ... Wi ...」
Chloe:「What ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay , Detective . I understand your confusion . And , although I 've told you the truth from the beginning , you 're a woman of logic and reason . And ... That - that is why I left you that message . You require proof . And I suppose now is as good a time as any to give it to you ... So perhaps you should sit .」
Chloe:「Okay . Mm - hmm . Lucifer lays down the stores .」
Ella:「Oh , right . Yeah . Maybe I should ... Leave . You know , uh , third wheel . Watch out . Ella leaves .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay .」
Chloe:「Lucifer , just show me what you need to show me . You know , I do n't need anything to drink .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I do ... I have tried to be honest with you , but if I 'm being honest with myself , and I have held the real truth back from you , and you , of all people , deserve to know that , Detective ... Which is why I want to show you .」

Chloe:「Lucifer , whatever it is that you want to show me or that you want to tell me , it 's okay . I 'm here for you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Okay . Then , once and for all , I 'd like to show you who I really am .」
Chloe:「Okay .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You ready ?」
Chloe:「Yeah . Nothing happens .
 Oh , my God . What ? Are you gassy ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Why is it not working ?」
Chloe:「Why is n't what working ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? I do n't understand .」
Chloe:「I do . You know , I keep caring , and you ... You just ... Just ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , Detective ! I ... Chloe leaves .I really am the Devil .」
Marcus:「Well , that sucks . Dead ends piss me off . Which is why I do n't believe in them . Now , these kidnappers might be fake but they 're not invisible . There has to be a way to find them .」
Chloe:「You 're right . If Muhammad wo n't come to the mountain , the mountain must go to Muhammad .」
Marcus:「I have no idea what that means , Decker .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , someone needs to get kidnapped .」
Marcus:「Now , there 's an idea .」
Chloe:「That I was just suggesting .」
Marcus:「No one likes a credit hog , Decker . Now , who would be the bait ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I 'd like to volunteer .」
Chloe:「Uh , it 's not a good idea . If these are the same guys that abducted , allegedly , Lucifer , they 're gon na recognize him .」
Marcus:「Right . We need somebody who 's a lot less , well ... Everything . Esperanza .」
Daniel:「Es - Espinoza . And , sure , that makes , uh , makes sense . I have the most experience in the field , so if something goes wrong , then ...」
Marcus:「You 're expendable . Exactly . Thank you . Now go get kidnapped , Esperanza . A customer knocks on the truck food .」
Customer:「Hey , excuse me , I was wondering if I could get a ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「We 're closed . We ran out of meat . All right , Daniel . You 're not allergic to gerbils , are you ? Just making some last - minute adjustments to the questionnaire .」
Daniel:「Hilarious .」

Chloe:「Hey , Lucifer , did you set up the pickup point ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . Tour bus pickup . Olvera Street . Exactly one half hour from now .」
Chloe:「All right , good . Hey . You know the team will intervene before anyone gets hurt , yeah ?」
Daniel:「Yeah .」
Chloe:「Okay . Look , if you 're upset about what the lieutenant said , you 're not alone . He 's not a fan of mine , either . And I still ca n't believe he called me " Lucifer 's partner . "」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You are my partner !」
Daniel:「You know , the truth is , I am feeling expendable .」
Chloe:「Why ?」
Daniel:「It 's not because Pierce said it . It 's because of Charlotte .」
Chloe:「Oh .」
Daniel:「Yeah , after everything that happened at the beach , she 's acting like she does n't even know me . I 'm not an idiot , I know she was using me at first , but ... But then it seemed like she actually cared .」
Chloe:「Well , um ...」
Daniel:「Whatever . I 'll get over it .」
Chloe:「I 'm sorry , Dan .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I 'm sorry , too , Daniel , that I ca n't hear you . Could you speak up , please ?」
Marcus:「T minus 20 , people . Take your mark , Espinoza .」
Chloe:「Right , I 'll check in with McMillian at the lookout point .」
Daniel:「Okay . Daniel s walking in the street . Lucifer calls him .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , Daniel . Listen , uh ...」
Daniel:「Come on .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , right . Undercover , yes . Listen , I know you were talking about Charlotte . And as douchey as you may be , and I know you ca n't help it , her current behaviour has nothing to do with you , okay ?」
Daniel:「And as much as I appreciate the pep talk , Lucifer , it was kinda you that got me in the whole Charlotte mess in the first place . So maybe you should just take care of your side of the street for a change , all right ? Good talk .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「My side of the street . That 's a good idea .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Ella prepares Leo 's funerals . Someone knocks on the door .
Ella:「Leo ? Oh .」

Amenadiel:「Hey . I 'm sorry to bother you , but do you have any idea where my brother went ? He 's ignoring my phone calls .」
Ella:「Oh , bud , no , no , no . He 's totally not ignoring you . He 's just in the middle of this sting operation .」
Amenadiel:「Oh .」
Ella:「Can I help ?」
Amenadiel:「That 's very nice of you , but no . It 's personal .」
Ella:「You a believer ? Well , then , whatever it is you 're going through , I 'm sure it 's all part of His plan . I mean , even the most pathetic , sad sack , powerless of creatures serve a purpose . Like Leo here ... A van may have cracked his nuts in the middle of the desert , but he 's still valuable evidence . That 's the thing . You never know when your rock - bottom pain and humiliation can end up helping others . I mean , God works in mysterious ways . So you just got to believe that when He crushes your nuts , He does it for a reason .」
Amenadiel:「Has this , um , Leo provided you with a break in your case ?」
Ella:「Not yet . But you got to have faith , right ?」
Amenadiel:「Right ... Right . Daniel is waiting for the kidnaper . Chloe is watching over him .」
Daniel:「The kidnappers are seven minutes late .」
Chloe:「Yeah , well , we did n't give them a lot of prep time ; do n't worry .」
Marcus:「I 'm worried . Where are they ?」
Chloe:「They 'll be here . Come on . Come on , be here . Be here . Lucifer is waiting for his kidnapers .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , lovely . Right on time . Hello . Right . How do we do ... Oh , careful . I bruise like a peach . Easy . Chloe receives a text from Lucifer .」

Chloe:「Seriously ? Lucifer is waiting for the kidnapers in a warehouse .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah , there you are . I have to say , the leaky pipe is a nice touch . Very Blood Simple . Coen Brothers movie ? No ? Oh . Well , hello , kidnappers . Finally , I have you right where I want you . Let 's see , so many questions , how did you abduct me the first time ? Hmm ? How did you render me unconscious ? Ow . What are you doing ? Stop it , that tickles .」
Gangly:「We used this last week , right ?」
Large:「Yeah .」
Gangly:「Did you forget to charge it ?」
Large:「No . I did n't forget to charge it .... Dude . Not cool .」
Gangly:「I just do n't get it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I do n't know . I hate to interrupt ... Where were we ? Daniel and Chloe are back to the station .」
Chloe:「Remind me not to leave Lucifer in the front seat unattended .」
Daniel:「And remind me to kick his ass for humiliating me in front of Pierce .」
Chloe:「Well , I 'll help you if we can find him .」

Daniel:「Look ... Do n't worry , Chloe . Lucifer can take care of himself .」
Ella:「Found Lucifer 's phone ... In some bushes on Alameda Street . Kidnappers must have tossed it .」
Chloe:「What about , uh , traffic cams ? Maybe we can pull a plate number .」
Ella:「No . I checked everything within a mile radius . Nada . Must have grabbed him in a blind spot . Unfortunately , I think we 're dealing with some pretty crafty bad guys . Lucifer is torturing Gangly and Large .」
Gangly:「I ... Ca n't ... Breathe !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Please do n't crush him . We 've only just begun .」
Large:「No . Come on , man . Ask us anything !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「All right . My face ... How did you do it ?」
Large:「What ? !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , the wings are one thing , but my Devil face ... How did you take that ?」
Gangly:「We 've never seen you before , man !」
Large:「Yeah , man . Never heard of you before today . I just got a name ... Daniel LaDoosh ... A pickup point , and that you got a thing for gerbils .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「I suppose you also deny abducting Mr. Banales and leaving him to perish in the desert , do you ?」
Gangly:「He 's the client from last week , man !」
Large:「Right , man . His friend got him the deluxe package . We did the detail work here , and then our partner Sam picked him up , took him to the spider hole for a few hours , and dropped him back off at the hotel .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , then , it seems your colleague took a detour . Where does this Sam live ?」
Large:「Koreatown ! It 's a pink building on Leeward .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Apartment ?」
Gangly:「5B , man ! 5B !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Lovely . Thanks for your help .」
Gangly:「Hey , man ! Will you let us go , man ? Ella and Chloe are trying to find a clue in the lab .」
Ella:「So , prints off the key chain led to Josh .」
Chloe:「Right . Tire treads on the roadkill led to nothing .」
Ella:「There 's got to be something we 're missing .」
Chloe:「Maybe Lancaster has something .」
Daniel:「We 're screwed .」

Chloe:「Or not .」
Daniel:「Remember the detective who found the key chain ? He does n't exist , at least not at Lancaster PD . They only sent patrol units to the scene .」
Ella:「Whoa . You think that was our guy ? Killers often return to the scene of the crime .」
Daniel:「Which means he was n't finding evidence . He was trying to steal it . Should have known .」
Chloe:「Why should you have known ? Lancaster does n't know us , we do n't know them . Look , let 's just look through these photos , try and find him in the background , okay ?」
Ella:「Yes , and then we can nail his ass with facial recognition software .」
Daniel:「Here he is . But his back 's to us .」
Ella:「You guys ... Oh , my gosh . I knew ... I knew he did n't die in vain .」
Chloe:「What ?」
Daniel:「Who ?」
Ella:「Leo . See , look . There 's our suspect , right , leaving the scene , walking towards that van . Ryuk Road Crusher tires . Commercial grade . That 's the van that ran over Leo . I mean , this pretty much confirms that this guy 's our killer .」
Chloe:「Okay . So maybe we can get an ID . Let 's run the license plate . Sam is packing his clothes . Lucifer knocks on the door . Sam goes to see who it is . Lucifer destroys the door .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Remember me ?」

Sam:「It 's you .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . You know me as the Devil you so rudely turned into an angel and then dumped in the middle of the desert , but I do n't know you , so , come on , introduce yourself .」
Sam:「I 'm Sam .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , yes , I know that , but what are you ? And how did my Father get his hooks into you ?」
Sam:「Your father ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , come on , do n't be coy . Let me see . Unless Dad got jiggy with some celestial babe after Mum , then you 're not my sibling , so ... Demon . Hmm ? Changeling ?」
Sam:「I work for an extreme kidnapping company . Snatched .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , do you now ? Well , do you know what ? It does n't matter what you are because ... This should take care of you .」

Sam:「Whoa ! Whoa ! Whoa ! I ... I 'm sorry . I 'm sorry I left you in the desert . I really am . And I 'm sorry I left that Steve guy there , too . I ... He was just a routine gig . I was gon na swap him for you , but when I went to pull you out of the van , you ... You had friggin ' wings , man !」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , duh ! Wings that you put there at the behest of my Father ! Now stop lying !」
Sam:「I 'm not ! I did n't mean to hurt anyone . I swear . And believe me , I did n't want to run , but you scared the hell out of me .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , you listen , Sammy , I know you 're just the messenger , so why do n't you deliver a message on my behalf ? I define who I am , not Him . Me ! Lucifer 's wings appear .Oh , bloody hell . They 're back , are n't they ? How ? How are you doing this ? Did my Father give you some kind of totem ? A talisman ? What ?」

Sam:「I 'm telling you , I do n't ... I do n't know what 's happening . And I do n't know your dad . Unless , is your , is your dad the Sinnerman ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Quite the opposite . Who 's the Sinnerman ?」
Sam:「That 's , that 's who , who hired me to kidnap you . He 's , he 's , he 's a scary dude . Huge crime boss . I owed him big time . But because I did n't finish the job , I 'm as good as dead now . That 's why I was running .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「And where do I find this Sinnerman ?」
Sam:「You do n't . He finds you .」
Chloe:「Lucifer ?」
Daniel:「Get up . Up . Come on , get up . Put your hands behind your back .」
Chloe:「What happened to you ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ... I do n't know . Chloe is sitting at her desk .」
Marcus:「Decker , it ai n't good .」

Chloe:「Lieutenant , look , I - I know what you 're gon na say . And , even though we caught our guy , Lucifer was way out of line , and I - I do n't disagree , but here 's what you got to know about our unorthodox methods ...」
Marcus:「Detective , you ...」
Chloe:「I am Lucifer 's partner , yes , you 're right , but you know what ? He 's mine , too . And , for whatever reason , we make an effective team . And will be even more so when I stop investing on a , um ... Personal level . I am here to solve crimes . Not to see his ... His thing or whatever , which is ... Not something that you need to know . Right . Look , point is , you can say what you want , but I know I 'm a good detective and I have a damn good solve rate to prove that .」
Marcus:「Okay .」
Chloe:「Okay .」
Marcus:「Okay . I just came down here to let you know that your perp has been released on bail .」
Chloe:「Oh . W - Wait , how is that possible ?」
Marcus:「Do n't know . Friends in high places , I guess .」
Chloe:「But there 's got to be something . I mean , don't - don't you care ?」
Marcus:「You do what you can , Decker . You ca n't save them all .」
Chloe:「Oh .」
Marcus:「But , um , good luck with Lucifer 's ... Thing or whatever . Lucifer is back to the penthouse .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , hello , Brother . So , did Remedy cure what ails you ? Did her massage make anything pop out ? Talking about your wings , of course .」

Amenadiel:「No , mine are still absent ... But yours , on the other hand ...」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh .」
Amenadiel:「Lucifer , I 'm not angry with you that you somehow got your wings back , or even that you cut them off again , as foul as that may be . I 'm angry with myself . Because somehow I made you feel like you could n't confide in me .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , comparing body parts is never good for the male ego , especially between brothers .」
Amenadiel:「But that 's just it , Luci ... My ego should never be an issue . I am an angel . A soldier of God . His favourite son .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , that 's gon na be a thing , is n't it ?」
Amenadiel:「Listen , Father , He ... Works in mysterious ways . I was tested once and I failed . I 'm not gon na fail again . Because this time , I have faith .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Excellent . And I suppose this wo n't bother you . Lucifer shows his brother his wings .」
Amenadiel:「But you ... You cut them off .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「I did , but the pesky things seem to be a bit more tenacious this time around .」
Amenadiel:「Well , like I said , I have faith . I 'm sure it 's all a part of God 's plan .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes ! If you mean his plan to continually manipulate and control me , then agreed . Because , by the way , he did n't just give my wings back , he took my Devil face as well .」
Amenadiel:「Luci , do you realize what this means ? Perhaps Father is trying to show you that , that you 've been forgiven .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What if I do n't want His forgiveness ?」
Amenadiel:「But , Brother , if you can be redeemed , that means that anyone can . Now , is n't that divine ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm not sure that this is divinity at work here ... Have you ever heard of someone named the Sinnerman ?」
Amenadiel:「The Sinnerman ? Chloe and Lucifer are walking on the beach .
 No . Why ?」

Lucifer Morningstar:「That 's who kidnapped me . They find a dead body .At first , I thought it was a ... An emissary on Earth working on Dad 's behalf , but then , the more I think about it , the more I think ... Maybe this is n't our Father who art in Heaven at all . Sam is dead .But something much , much darker .」

narration:Charlotte staples her belly .
Charlotte:「Hello ? It 's Charlotte Richards . I need a favour . Amenadiel is happy .」
Amenadiel:「Would you look at that , Luci ? It really is the final piece . Unbelievable .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , no , I believe it . It 's classic Dad . Hanging the final piece of the Flaming Sword right under our noses ... Well ... Your nose , this entire time ... I know , right ? It 's ridiculous . I mean , if that is n't the biggest celestial bird Dad 's ever flipped .」
Amenadiel:「What are you talking about ? This means that I 'm the favourite son .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Uh , no , it means that once again Dad is manipulating us six ways to Sunday . But , hey , what 's new ? At least we have it now . So ... Well , hand it over , Brother . The sword 's not gon na ignite itself . It ... Oh , just give it to me . Give it to me . Right , do n't be silly , Brother . You know I 'm ten times stronger than you .」
Amenadiel:「But I 'm the favourite .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , right . Of course . That one ... Right , do n't make me hurt you . Remember , you 're not the angel you once were .」
Amenadiel:「No , Luci , you 're right , I 'm not .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , oh . I did n't mean to make you all broody again .」
Amenadiel:「No , it 's okay . I just need a little time to process what it all means .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Process ? Okay . Fine . Suppose we 're in no real rush . Process away ... I think I 've got E.T. on the DVR if you need a good weep and a pint of Haagen - Daz in the freezer if that helps . Linda enters in her office . Charlotte was waiting for her .」
Linda:「You scared me . God !」
Charlotte:「Goddess . But whatever . I need medical attention . I 'm wounded .」
Linda:「Then go to a hospital .」
Charlotte:「This is n't exactly a human injury , and since you know who , or rather what I am , I would appreciate it if you would just patch me up .」

Linda:「Why does everybody keep doing this to me ? I am a doctor , but patching people up is n't my thing .」
Charlotte:「Oh ... It is now .」
Linda:「Suppose I could take a gander .」
Charlotte:「Wonderful ... I should warn you , you might have to ... Charlotte opens her dress and her light burn the wall .
 Duck .」
Linda:「What ? ! Who did that to you ? I mean , was it Lucifer ? I - I mean ... Not on purpose , you know . Accidentally , like with that Flaming Sword thingy ... All right , let me see what I got here ... Okay , duct tape . Trust me . This stuff 's amazing . Lucifer is checking his phone .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「This is ridiculous . You have experience with emotionally fragile men , do n't you ?」
Chloe:「You 're self - aware today .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , I meant Dan . Anyway , tell me , how do you stop them from overthinking everything ?」
Chloe:「Who 's overthinking ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Amenadiel . Leave it to him to turn a compliment into something to angst over . I mean , he should be happy he 's Dad 's favourite .」

Chloe:「Wait , your dad did n't actually tell you guys that , did he ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , in so many Sumerian words , yes .」
Chloe:「You know , the more I hear about your dad , the more I understand why you 're ... You know , you . Chloe and Lucifer arrive on the crime scene .」
Ella:「Body dump . Weird one , too , and not just 'cause of the obvious buck naked , deep - fried head thing . But someone also shaved this poor guy 's entire body .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , maybe our poor killer 's just chaetophobic . Fear of hair . Always fun when they turn up in Hell . Lots of wigs involved .」
Ella:「But I 'm pretty sure ... This guy got a bath in bleach .」
Chloe:「So , whoever dumped him is a pro .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It 's like he just vanished off the face of the Earth .」
Ella:「I know . But it 's pretty tough for someone to cover every track .」
Chloe:「If anyone can find something , it 's you , Ella .」
Ella:「Aw , that is so sweet !」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , well , u - until you do , I 've got some personal business I need to tend to .」
Ella:「'Cause , you know , you 're not so much with the nice words , but when they come out ... Lucifer is trying to enter in Linda 's practice but it 's closed . Linda finally opens the door .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Doctor .」
Linda:「Hi . Lucifer , what 's up ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm wondering if you 've seen Amenadiel .」
Linda:「Nope . Have n't seen that family member . No .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Can you stop being weird and just let me in ? Lucifer enters .Mum . What are you doing here ?」
Charlotte:「Oh , you know , girl stuff .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Naked girl stuff ? Dr. Linda , I had no idea ... What is that ? All right , out with it , Mother .」
Charlotte:「It 's nothing . That spoiled brat , Chet Ruiz , stabbed me , and now I 'm bleeding light . It 's ... It 's no big deal .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? That 's a huge deal . Mum , if your powers are returning to this degree , then your human body wo n't be able to contain it , you 'll ... You 'll burst . Oh , no . I need to find Amenadiel now .」
Charlotte:「I 'd rather you did n't . I mean , it 's bad enough that you 'll be worried .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , that 's just it , Mum . Amenadiel has the missing piece of the sword .」
Charlotte:「You 're k ... You 're kidding . Son , why did n't you say something ? Now we can finally ignite it and cut through the Gates of Heaven and I can see my ... I can ... I can see my children .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes . Yes , but for now , I need to find Amenadiel and you need to stay away from humans ... You 're a ... Ticking bomb .」
Charlotte:「Uh , um , actually , speaking of that , I ... May have already harmed ... Someone .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , no . No , no , no . I just came from a crime scene ... The man with a burned head . Please tell me that is n't Chet . The detective is on that case .」

Charlotte:「Well , not to worry . I had a pro clean up the mess .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You do n't understand . The Detective is good , annoyingly good .」
Charlotte:「Well , then we just need to find Amenadiel , do n't we ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes .」
Charlotte:「And get the piece .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Because if we do n't get you back to Heaven before the detective gets to you , then she is quite literally toast . Lucifer knocks on Chloe 's door . Trixie opens .」
Trixie:「Did you slip on a banana peel , too ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ?」
Trixie:「I 'm afraid you 're gon na need surgery .」
Maze:「Do n't fight it . The kid 's fierce .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I ... Trixie is fixing Lucifer .So , I left Mum in the wine cellar at Lux , and that 's the situation . Ouch .」
Maze:「Baby . I still do n't get why you 're here .」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Because I need the best bounty hunter out there . I can deal with the detective , but I need you to find Amenadiel . Then we can get the pendant , assemble the sword before Mum spews light everywhere .」
Trixie:「You do n't have to speak in code . I can handle adult stuff .」
Maze:「So what if your mother explodes ? Why should I care ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Because many , many humans could get hurt .」
Maze:「Yeah , and ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , nice try , Maze , but I happen to know there 's a few that you care about .」
Maze:「Fine . But you pay me my standard fee . No freebies .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Absolutely ... Oh . Love me a lolli .」
Trixie:「Sorry , wussies do n't get any . Chloe askes question to Chet 's brother .」
Chloe:「So , I ran the prints , and it came back as your brother Chet ... I 'm sorry . I know that you 've been living in Mexico , but can you think of anyone who may have wanted your brother dead ?」

Hector:「My family had many enemies . It 's why I left , to get away from the Ruiz empire . I tried to get Chet to go with me , but ...」
Chloe:「But , unfortunately , he got involved in the family business .」
Hector:「I know you were the one who put my mother in prison . I also know you were after Chet , so I know what you think of my family ... But I loved my brother ... He did n't deserve to die . Especially not like that .」
Chloe:「No one deserves to die like that . Look , I 'm gon na work this case as carefully and fairly as I would any other case . I promise you . Lucifer breaks an evidence at Ella 's lab .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah , oopsie daisy . There goes that clue . Klutzy me .」
Ella:「Aw , do n't worry , buddy . I am a total klutz myself . Which is why I always make a backup .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , good . Hope it leads us straight to Chet 's killer .」
Ella:「Oh , no , that 's from another crime scene . I got a big steaming pile of nada from the Chet Ruiz crime scene .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh , good ... Ness me , that is awful .」

Chloe:「Please tell me you have something .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「No , no , nothing . It 's so frustrating .」
Ella:「Well , there is one thing I 'm waiting on .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「But I thought you just said we had nada .」
Ella:「Well , so the only thing we know for sure is that someone had to drive there to dump the body . So , the tech team is checking the vicinity for cameras , but it 's such a remote place , so do n't get your hopes up .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ooh , yes . I think you 're right , Miss Lopez . Sadly , the only witness to this one is my dear old dad .」
Ella:「Oh , right . Yes , your dad ... Is always watching . Wait a second . That gives me an idea .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「It does ?」
Ella:「Satellite imaging takes sporadic photos of , well , everything , so ...」
Chloe:「So there may be footage of the killer going to or from the warehouse .」
Ella:「Exactly . I mean , it 's a long shot , but thank you , Lucifer .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You 're so welcome . Amenadiel make some improve .」

Amenadiel:「It 's me . God chose me . I 'm the favourite son . This whole time , I actually thought that God had lost faith in me , but it was me . I lost faith in him . I can see that now ... That losing my powers must have been a test ... And if so , I failed ... I 'm so sorry , Father .」
Partner:「Yes , and how was your pork chop ?」
Daniel:「Okay , that 's great . We 'll cut right there . Hey , can I have the lights please ? So , uh , good job . But there are a few subjects that we try to avoid」
Amenadiel:「Mm - hmm , mm - hmm . Totally understand . I got this .」
Daniel:「Perfect . All right , let 's give 'em another scenario .」
Woman:「Oh , uh , zookeepers and the giraffe is pregnant .」
Daniel:「Okay . You guys ready ? Action .」
Partner:「Oh , man ! I think she 's going into labour ! Help me !」
Amenadiel:「How can I help when I 'm supposed to kill my own father ? !」
Daniel:「And cut ... It 's a little dark , buddy .」
Amenadiel:「Hmm .」
Daniel:「You know , just try to have fun with it .」
Amenadiel:「But I thought you told me this helped you work through difficult personal matters .」
Daniel:「I did . Chloe and Lucifer are walking in the street .」
Chloe:「APB got a hit that it was parked in the lot across the street .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I 'm telling you , we 're wasting time .」

Chloe:「It was the only vehicle parked near the crime scene between midnight and 5」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , but how do you know this parked van 's even the same one ? I mean , there 's no license plates on this image .」
Chloe:「Oh , come on ! How many vans have dandelions on the side ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「They 're not dandelions , they 're jellyfish .」
Chloe:「What ? Jellyfish ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , yes . Well , I 'm simply saying that we should be focusing on more pressing criminal issues .」
Chloe:「Such as ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I 'm glad you asked , actually . The death of Celeste McDougall . Very suspicious , indeed .」
Chloe:「She was 92 .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , and fit as a fiddle . I mean , look at that smug face . Look .」
Chloe:「I know . Yeah , I got it , I got it . .. LAPD ! Do n't move ! You still think we 're wasting our time ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Definitely rethinking the lasagna I had for lunch .」

Ava:「Oh , my gosh . This is not what it looks like .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? Minions day out ?」
Chloe:「Take your hoods off , slowly .」
Ava:「I know this looks bad , but we can explain . I 'm Ava . This is my sister Kathleen .」
Kathleen:「Hi . How ya doin' ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Friendliest serial killers ever .」
Kathleen:「Oh , that 's hilarious . We 're not killers . God , no . We run Dandy Lyon Cleaners . Lyon 's our last name . Get it ?」
Ava:「We take care of crime scenes , dead body removals . All the icky stuff .」
Kathleen:「But totally legit . Yeah , like this poor guy , died of a heart attack .」
Ava:「Like , two weeks ago .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right , well , perfectly good explanation . I knew it . Shall we , Detective ?」
Chloe:「Wait , wait , wait . Why was your van outside of an abandoned warehouse in Eagle Rock at 3」
Ava:「I 'm ... Pretty sure you 're mistaken . We were nowhere near that area .」
Kathleen:「Well ...」

Ava:「Ugh , no . Eagle Rock . Do not tell me you went to see Fred again . I thought you were done with that jerk .」
Kathleen:「I was , till I ran into him at Jamba Juice .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Understand completely . I mean , what 's more intoxicating than a Mango - A - Go - Go ? Alibi sorted . We 'll leave you here with Soupy , and we 'll be on our way . Come on .」
Chloe:「No . Wait , wait . Hold on . Can I talk to you for a second ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes ?」
Chloe:「Enough with this . Why are you trying to rush our investigation ? Why are you still hiding things from me after all we 've been through ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「You know I do n't lie , Detective .」
Chloe:「But you also do n't tell the whole truth ... Does this have to do with what you were upset about this morning , with your family ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , but I ca n't explain , because you would n't understand .」

Chloe:「Not if you do n't talk to me ... Never mind . I thought we were past this . Going backwards , Lucifer , is not good . For anyone . At the end of the class , Daniel encourages Amenadiel .」
Daniel:「Trust me , dude , you 're gon na find this really freeing once you get the hang of it . And I 'll help you through it . Just takes practice .」
Amenadiel:「You 're a good man , Daniel .」
Daniel:「Yeah . Amenadiel hugs Daniel .
 Ooh ! Okay . All right . Wow . You 're strong ... That family is so weird . Daniel leaves , Maze enters .」
Maze:「" You 'll get the hang of it . It just takes practice . " And that hug . You guys doing it ?」
Amenadiel:「So , what are you even doing here ?」
Maze:「I 'm bounty hunting you , thanks to Lucifer . Time to assemble the sword , Amenadiel .」
Amenadiel:「I do n't know that I want to , Maze . Father entrusted me with the final piece . That changes things .」
Maze:「Are you coming with me or not ?」
Amenadiel:「Think about it , Mazikeen . All of my actions , all of my feelings , they were all just based on lies . You see , I thought I had fallen , and I ... Maze tazes Amenadiel .」
Maze:「I do n't get paid by the hour . Chloe is doing researches on her computer . Ella arrives .」
Ella:「Oh , my God ! Are you going to Paris ? Can I be your travel buddy ? I love Paris . Les hommes , oh , très sexy , romantiques , avec ...」
Chloe:「This is the Paris hotel in Vegas , actually .」
Ella:「Oh . Not ... Going there . Vegas and me ... Not pretty .」
Chloe:「Yeah , I 'm not going , either . But Kathleen Lyon 's ex Brad did , and according to his Wobble page , he 's been partying there all weekend .」
Ella:「Oh , well , that blows up Kathleen 's reason for being in Eagle Rock at 3」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Hello , Brother . I notice you 've changed your look . Where 's your pretty necklace ?」

Amenadiel:「Oh , I 've put it in a safe place .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Ah . Keister it , did you ?」
Maze:「Nope . Already checked . Not there .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Lovely . Listen , Amenadiel , I need the final piece .」
Amenadiel:「Right . So you and Mom can slice through the Gates of Heaven and destroy Father . Yeah . I know .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Right . Maze , darling , would you mind running down to the wine cellar and fetching Mum ? I think she 'd like to hear this .」
Amenadiel:「I 've been thinking about this , deeply . And I think that we 've been looking at things the wrong way .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Oh ?」
Amenadiel:「That necklace was a gift . It 's not some manipulation .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , you only think that because it was gifted to you .」

Amenadiel:「No , no , Luci ! It 's all about perspective . Father does n't always make things clear , because he wants us to form our own beliefs . And I strongly believe that I am to guard that piece . Now , I may have lost my way , but that does n't mean that I ca n't rectify things now .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Fine . What if I was to tell you I never planned on destroying Dad ?」
Amenadiel:「I 'd say you were full of it .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , I want to assemble the sword , yes , I want to cut through the gates , blah , blah , but then I was just gon na kick Mum into Heaven and slam the gates behind her . Let the two lovebirds torture each other for eternity .」
Amenadiel:「And that 's better ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes .」
Amenadiel:「No ! Regardless of whether you 're with Mom or not , I simply ca n't let Mom loose on Dad . Now , it is finally time that I go back to being the loyal soldier that he entrusted me to be . Mom is not going anywhere !」

Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , I am afraid that we do not have a choice , Brother ! Mum 's powers are returning , and it wo n't be long before we ca n't contain them . I mean , she 's already killed one person , and now the detective is on a ... The Detective is on her case . So , please , no discussion . Mum has to go !」
Maze:「She already has . Your mother 's gone .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「What ? Linda opens the door of her practice .」
Charlotte:「It 's Cheval something or other . It 's valuable , so it must be good .」
Linda:「I was n't expecting to see you or your ... Deadly light back so soon .」
Charlotte:「Well , something 's been bothering me . When you first saw my wound ... You asked if Lucifer had done it ... What did you mean by that ?」
Linda:「I meant nothing by it . You know ? Meaningless brain fart , you know ? Just blah . Came out . There was a lot going on that day .」

Charlotte:「Hmm . I do n't think so . I think , in fact , that you know something . I do n't want to hurt you , Linda . I ... Am running ... Out of time . You 've seen what 's happening to me . So you can either tell me what you know over a glass of wine or over your own charbroiled corpse . Your choice . Chloe and Daniel are the new crime scene .」
Chloe:「I came here to grill Kathleen on the false alibi .」
Daniel:「Whoa . Somebody already had , huh ?」
Chloe:「Yeah . It 's Ava Lyon . I 'm thinking whoever killed Chet hired the Lyon sisters to clean up , then cleaned up the cleaner .」
Kathleen:「Excuse me , what is going on ? I work here ... Ava !」
Chloe:「Stop .」
Kathleen:「Oh , my God . What did I do ? Chloe is interviewing Kathleen at the station .
 It 's me , only me . Ava knew nothing about it . I was n't lying about Brad . I did get back together with him , but he gambles a lot , and he needed money . Then I got this call offering me a hundred grand .」
Chloe:「Who hired you ? Who killed Chet and your sister ?」
Kathleen:「Maybe Ava 's death was a warning . For me to keep my mouth shut . Maybe if I do n't say anything ... Amenadiel and Lucifer are at Lux .」
Amenadiel:「So how do we find Mom ? Follow the trail of roasted humans ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Well , if anyone can find that wily goddess , it 's Maze . She 's on it . Lucifer 's phone rings . It 's Chloe . She 's at the station .Detective . Everything all right ?」

Chloe:「We found a body .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Another body ?」
Chloe:「A burned head .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Same burned head ?」
Chloe:「Yes .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「So , what , you think whoever killed Chet killed again ?」
Chloe:「Look , Lucifer , it 's a long story , but the second victim is Ava Lyon . She 's one of the cleaners we met . I have her sister Kathleen here , but she 's not saying anything ... She 's scared . So I need you to come here , and I need you to do your mojo thing .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Yes , Detective , believe me when I say I want to find the killer as much as you do .」
Charlotte:「Hello , boys .」
Lucifer Morningstar:「Mum .」
Chloe:「What ? What ? What 's going on ?」
Lucifer Morningstar:「I - I 'm so sorry . My mum 's here . I - I've got to rush . Good luck with Kathleen . Ciao .」
Chloe:「Damn it .」
Ella:「What 's wrong ?」
Chloe:「Lucifer . He 's ... He 's hiding something from me , I can tell .」
