narration:A man breathes heavily whilst running through the forest . He climbs a cliff wall and sees a fishing boat in the distance . He continues to run and jumps down to the ground below . He reaches what seems to be his campsite ; he sets his bow and arrow and fires a flaming arrow into a pile of sticks creating an explosion and alerting the native fisherman to the island .
Native Fishermen:「[ speaking mandarin ]」
Man ( V.O. ):「The name of the island they found me on is Lian Yu . It 's mandarin for " purgatory " . I 've been stranded here for 5 years . I 've dreamt of my rescue every cold black night since then . For 5 years , I have had only one thought , one goal ... survive ... ( man removes his hood and shows his face ) survive and one day return home . [ Fishing Boat ] ( one of the fishermen hands the man water to drink ) The island held many dangers . To live , I had to make myself more than what I was , to forge myself into a weapon . I am returning not the boy who was shipwrecked but the man who will bring justice to those who have poisoned my city . My name is Oliver Queen .」
narration:[ Starling City ]
Television Anchorman:「Oliver Queen is alive . The Starling City resident was found by fishermen in the North China sea 5 days ago , 5 years after he was missing and presumed dead following the accident at sea which claimed " The Queen 's Gambit . " Queen was a regular tabloid presence and a fixture at the Starling City club scene . Shortly before his disappearance , he was acquitted of assault charges stemming from a highly publicized drunken altercation with paparazzi . Queen is the son of Starling City billionaire Robert Queen , who was also on board but now officially confirmed as deceased .」
narration:[ Starling City Hospital ] - Oliver Queen
 now shaven
 looks out the hospital room window emotionless whilst the Doctor talks outside the room .
Doctor:「20 % of his body is covered in scar tissue . Second - degree burns on his back and arms . X - rays show at least 12 fractures that never properly healed . ( Camera pans to show a woman observing Oliver outside the room )」
Woman:「Has he said anything about what happened ?」
Doctor:「No . He 's barely said anything . ( The woman looks back to Oliver ) Moira , I 'd like you to prepare yourself . The Oliver you lost ... might not be the one they found . ( The woman opens door and goes inside )」
Moira Queen:「Oliver . ( Oliver turns around )」
Oliver Queen:「Mom . ( They walk towards each other )」

Moira:「Oh ... ( on the precipice of tears ) my beautiful boy . ( They hug )」
narration:[ Queen Mansion ] - A black sedan pulls up to the house . The trunk opens and the driver reaches for the wooden suitcase but Oliver stops him
Oliver Queen:「I 've got it . ( Moira and Oliver enter the house )」
Moira:「Your room is exactly as you left it . I never had the heart to change a thing .」
Man:「Oliver . It 's damn good to see you . ( Oliver looks at him ) It 's Walter ... ( they shake hands ) Walter Steele .」
Moira:「You remember Walter , your father 's friend from the company . ( Oliver walks past her to the maid )」
Oliver Queen:「It 's good to see you , Raisa .」
Raisa:「Welcome home , Mr. Oliver . Mr. Merlyn phoned . He wants to join you for dinner .」
Moira:「Wonderful . ( A door opens and closes ) Oliver ? ( Oliver walks toward the staircase ) Did you hear that ?」
Oliver Queen:「Hey , sis .」
Thea Queen:「I knew it . I knew you were alive . ( She hugs him ) I missed you so much .」
Oliver Queen:「You were with me the whole time .」

narration:[ CNRI Office ] - Two women have a conversation whilst one checks the mail .
Johanna De La Vega:「Come on , Laurel . We 're lawyers , not miracle workers . We ca n't win this .」
Laurel Lance:「If we ca n't win a class - action suit against a man who swindled hundreds of people out of their homes and life savings , then we 're not fit to call ourselves a legal aid office .」
Woman:「And if we go bankrupt in the process , we wo n't be a legal aid office . Hunt has an army of lawyers , and they 're ready to bury us .」
Laurel:「You and I against an army . I love those odds .」
Johanna:「Why do you hate me ?」
Laurel:「[ She scoffs ] ( She sits down and stares at a board with pinned newspaper clippings and photos of ADAM HUNT . The TV is heard in the distance )」
Television Anchorman:「And in other news , details as to the castaway story you 've all heard about ... the son of a very wealthy billionaire will soon become a legendary story . Jessica now has more details and the complete castaway story . ( Laurel turns her attention from the board to the TV )」
Jessica:「" The Queen 's Gambit " was last heard from more than 5 years ago . Mr. Queen has reportedly confirmed he was the only survivor of the accident that took the lives of 7 people , including local resident Sarah Lance . Survived by her sister , Laurel ... ( Laurel walks to the TV turns it off and everyone looks at her ; she drops the remote on the table and proceeds to walk away )」
narration:[ Queen Mansion - Oliver 's Bedroom ]
Oliver ( V.O. ):「After 5 years , everything that was once familiar is now unrecognizable . The face I see in the mirror is a stranger . ( Oliver looks at himself and at his scars . His Arrow persona flashes on screen as thunder strikes )」
narration:[ Flashback ] Queen 's Gambit - 5 Years Ago . Robert Queen stares at the ship radar whilst a man emerges from outside soaking wet .
Crew Member:「The storm 's a category 2 . The captain 's recommending we head back .」
Robert Queen:「All right . Inform the crew .」
Oliver Queen:「Are we in trouble ?」

Robert:「One of us is . ( Sarah Lance approaches from one of the cabins )」
Sarah:「Ollie ? Where do you keep the bottle opener on this thing ?」
Oliver Queen:「I 'll be there in a minute , Sarah .」
Robert:「[ Sighs ] You know , son , that is not going to finish well for either of them or for you .」
narration:[ Present Day ] - Oliver is fully - dressed and staring at a photo of him and his father . [ Front door opens ]
Tommy Merlyn:「What did I tell you ? Yachts suck . [ Chuckles ]」
Oliver Queen:「Tommy Merlyn . [ They hug ]」
Tommy:「I missed you , buddy .」
narration:[ Dinning Room ]
 Everyone is seated in the dining room for dinner
Tommy:「Ok . What else did you miss ? Super bowl winners ... Giants , Steelers , Saints , Packers , Giants again . A black president , that 's new . Oh , and " Lost , " they were all dead ... I think .」
Thea:「What was it like there ? ( The table goes quiet and tension fills the room )」
Oliver Queen:「Cold .」
Tommy:「Tomorrow , you and me , we 're doing the city . You 've got a lot to catch up on .」

Moira:「That sounds like a great idea .」
Oliver Queen:「Good . Then I was hoping to swing by the office .」
Walter:「( About to take a sip from his wine stops ) Well , there 's plenty of time for all that . Queen Consolidated is n't going anywhere .」
narration:Raisa comes to set a bowl of pears on the table . She trips but Oliver catches her and restores her balance .
Raisa:「Oh , I am so sorry , Mr. Oliver .」
Oliver Queen:「[ Speaks Russian ] It 's no worry . ( Tommy looks at him ) ( Raisa is equally stunned )」
Tommy:「Dude , you speak Russian ?」
Walter:「I did n't realize you took Russian at college , Oliver .」
Oliver Queen:「I did n't realize you wanted to sleep with my mother , Walter . ( Silence fills the room and the tension returns . Moira looks at Oliver then at Thea )」
Thea:「I did n't say anything .」
Oliver Queen:「She did n't have to . ( Moira nods in acknowledgement )」
Moira:「Oliver ... Walter and I are married , and I do n't want you to think that either one of us did anything to disrespect your father .」

Walter:「We both believed that Robert , like you , was , uh , well , gone .」
Oliver Queen:「( Visibly pained ) It 's fine . ( Oliver gets up ) May I be excused ? ( Moira nods )」
Tommy:「Hey , do n't forget about tomorrow , buddy . ( Oliver leaves )」
narration:[ Oliver 's Bedroom ] - It 's raining heavily , the window is open and Oliver is seen lying on his bedroom floor asleep by the window soaking wet .
 [ Flashback ] Queen 's Gambit - 5 Years Ago
Sarah:「1 , 2 , 3 . It 's getting closer .」
Oliver Queen:「That 's not very scientific .」
Sarah:「What would you know about science , Mr. Ivy League dropout ?」
Oliver Queen:「I happen to know a lot about science . I know about fermentation . I know biology . ( He kisses her )」
Sarah:「Laurel 's gon na kill me . Oh , she 's so gon na kill me .」
Oliver Queen:「Your sister will never know . Come here . ( throws her on the bed )」
Sarah:「Ha Ha ha ! [ Thunder ] Ok , that one was really close .」

Oliver Queen:「Sarah , we 're gon na be fine . ( He kisses her )」
narration:The champagne glasses tilt and suddenly the cabin flips and they 're thrown to opposite sides of the room . [ Sarah screams ] Oliver regains his balance and looks up to find Sarah only to see her ripped away by the ocean .
Oliver Queen:「Sarah ? ( The water takes her away and she screams ) Sarah !」
narration:Oliver now in the ocean himself screams for Sarah
Oliver Queen:「Sarah !」
Crew Member:「Oliver !」
Oliver Queen:「Sarah !」
Crew Member:「Oliver ! ( Oliver looks over and swims to the crew member on the lifeboat )」
Oliver Queen:「Gus . ( He climbs aboard the lifeboat ) [ Coughs ] No ! No ! ( turns around to go back - Robert stops him ) No ! Dad , she 's out there !」
Robert:「She 's not there .」
Oliver Queen:「Sarah ! ( he watches the yacht sink )」
Robert:「She 's gone .」
narration:[ Present Day ] - Moira wakes Oliver . He wakes up in attack mode , flips her and puts his hand to her throat .
Moira:「Oliver ? Wake up . Oliver ?」

Walter:「Oliver ! ( Oliver looks at Walter then down at Moira , he releases her quickly and moves back to the window horrified )」
Oliver Queen:「I 'm sorry . I 'm so ... I 'm so sorry . ( Walter helps Moira up )」
Moira:「Oh , it 's ok , Oliver . It 's all right , sweetheart . You 're home . You 're home .」
narration:[ Thea 's Bedroom ] - A girl crushes pills into powder on Thea 's desk presumably to take them before they are interrupted by Oliver .
Thea:「Where did you get these ?」
Girl:「Roxies . Thank you , daddy 's ACL tear . [ Knock on the door][Both girls hide the pills and the powder ]」
Thea:「Ollie .」
Oliver Queen:「No one 's called me that in a while , Speedy .」
Thea:「Worst nickname ever .」
Oliver Queen:「What , always chasing after me as a kid ? I thought it fit pretty well . Maybe it still does .」
Girl:「See you at school , Speedy . ( she leaves )」
Thea:「Sorry about her .」
Oliver Queen:「I have something for you .」

Thea:「You did not come back from a deserted island with a souvenir .」
Oliver Queen:「It 's a Hozen and in Buddhism , it symbolizes reconnecting . I kept it in hopes that one day , it would reconnect me with you .」
Tommy:「A rock ! That is sweet . You know , I want one of those t - shirts that says " My friend was a castaway , and all I got was this crappy shirt . " [ Chuckles ]」
Thea:「Do n't let him get you into too much trouble . You just got back . Take it slow . [ Oliver kisses her on the check and they hug ]」
Tommy:「Ahem . The city awaits . [ In the hallway ] Have you noticed how hot your sister 's gotten ? [ Oliver gives him a stern look ] Because I have not .」
narration:[ Inside Tommy 's Mercedes SLR ]
Tommy:「Your funeral blew .」
Oliver Queen:「Did you get lucky ?」
Tommy:「Fish in a barrel . They were so sad ...」
Oliver Queen:「No .」
Tommy:「And huggy .
 And I am counting on another target rich environment for your welcome home bash .」
Oliver Queen:「At my what ?」

Tommy:「You came back from the dead . This calls for a party . You tell me where and when . I 'll take care of everything . And this city 's gone to crap . Your dad sold his factory just in time . And why 'd you want to drive through this neighborhood anyway ? [ Oliver looks at his father 's old factory ]」
Oliver Queen:「No reason .」
Tommy:「So what 'd you miss the most , steaks at the palm , drinks at the station , meaningless s*x ?」
Oliver Queen:「Laurel .」
Tommy:「Everyone is happy you 're alive . You want to see the one person who is n't ?」
narration:[ CNRI Office ]
Johanna:「Laurel , I just got this from Hunt 's lawyers . They filed a change of venue . We are now in front of Judge Grell .」
Laurel:「Hunt funded Grell 's re - election campaign .」
Johanna:「Mm - hmm .」
Laurel:「He 's got Grell in his back - pocket .」
Johanna:「You know , it 's fun being your friend . I get to say " I told you so " a lot .」
Laurel:「No . Adam Hunt is not smarter than we are .」

Johanna:「No , he 's just richer and willing to commit multiple felonies .」
Laurel:「We do n't need to go outside the law ...」
Johanna:「" to find justice . " Your dad 's favorite jingle .」
Oliver Queen:「Hello , Laurel .」
narration:[ Outside CNRI Office ]
Oliver Queen:「You went to law school . You said you would .」
Laurel:「Yeah . Everyone 's proud .」
Oliver Queen:「Adam Hunt 's a heavy hitter . You sure you want to get in the ring with him ?」
Laurel:「Five years and you want to talk about Adam Hunt ?」
Oliver Queen:「No . Not really .」
Laurel:「Why are you here , Ollie ?」
Oliver Queen:「To apologize . It was my fault . I wanted to ask you not to blame her .」
Laurel:「For what ? Falling under your spell . How could I possibly blame her for doing the same things that I did ?」
Oliver Queen:「I never meant to ...」

Laurel:「She was my sister . I could n't be angry because she was dead . I could n't grieve because I was so angry . That 's what happens when your sister dies while screwing your boyfriend . We buried an empty coffin ... because her body was at the bottom of the ocean where you left her . It should have been you .」
Oliver Queen:「I know that it 's too late to say this , but I 'm sorry .」
Laurel:「Yeah , I 'm sorry , too . I 'd hoped that you 'd rot in hell a whole lot longer than 5 years . How did you think that was gon na go , Tommy ?」
Tommy:「About like that .」
narration:[ Alleyway . Tommy and Oliver walk back to his car when suddenly they are ambushed by armed men who shot them with tranquilizers and Oliver sees one kill an innocent man ]
Tommy:「Ok , so we took care of that . Good call . Now we can make up for lost time . If you 're not too sick of fish , I suggest we find some leggy models and eat Sushi all day . What do you say ? [ An van approaches them from behind ] What 're they doing ? [ armed men appear in front ] What the hell ?」
Bystander:「Hey ! [ One of the men shoots him dead ]」

narration:[ Flashback ] - Lifeboat . Gus sets up a fluorescent light above the boat . Robert gives Oliver a bottle of water to drink .
Robert:「Here , son . Drink .」
Gus:「What the hell are you doing ? ! ( pointing to the bottle of water ) That 's all we 've got .」
Robert:「If anybody 's making it out of here , it 's gon na be him . I 'm so sorry . I thought I 'd have more time . I 'm not the man you think I am . I did n't build our city . I failed it . And I was n't the only one .」
narration:[ Present Day ] - Desolate warehouse
Kidnapper:「Mr. Queen . ( The hood is yanked of Oliver 's head ) Mr. Queen ! Did your father survive that accident ? I ask the questions . You give me the answers . ( tasers him ) Did he make it to the island ? Did he tell you anything ? ( tasers him )」
Oliver Queen:「Yes , he did .」
Kidnapper:「What did he tell you , Mr. Queen ? ( Oliver looks at Tommy unconscious on the floor . Also zip - tied )」
Oliver Queen:「He told me I 'm gon na kill you .」

Kidnapper:「[ laughs ] You 're delusional . You 're zip - cuffed to that chair .」
Oliver Queen:「( shows his hands ) Not anymore .」
narration:The first kidnapper attacks Oliver , Oliver meanwhile dodges his attack and knocks him out the his chair . He disarms the second kidnapper and uses him as a human shield . The third kidnapper makes a run for it but Oliver apprehends him and kills him
Oliver Queen:「You killed that man .」
Kidnapper 3:「You do n't have to do this .」
Oliver Queen:「Yes , I do . Nobody can know my secret . [ He breaks his neck - killing him ]」
narration:[ Queen Mansion ] - Living Room
Detective Lance:「So that 's your story . A guy in a green hood flew in and single - handedly took out 3 armed kidnappers . I mean , who is he ? Why would he do that ?」
Oliver Queen:「I do n't know . Find him and you can ask .」
Detective Lance:「Yeah . What about you ? ( shows him the sketch ) You see the hood guy ?」
Tommy:「I saw ... just movement . Everything blurry . I was kind of out of it .」

Detective Lance:「Yeah . It 's funny , is n't it ? One day back , and already somebody 's gunning for you . Are n't you popular ?」
Moira:「Were you able to identify the men ?」
Detective Hilton:「Scrubbed identities , untraceable weapons . These were pros .」
Detective Lance:「Yeah . Well , they probably figured you 'd pay a king 's ransom to get your boy back or a Queen 's ransom , as it were . After all , a parent would do anything to keep their child safe .」
Moira:「I do n't find your tone appropriate , Detective .」
Walter:「If Oliver can think of anything else , he 'll be in touch . Thank you , gentlemen , for coming . [ Detective Lance chuckles ]」
Detective Lance:「Your luck never seems to run out , does it ? ( The detectives leave )」
narration:[ Oliver 's Bedroom ] - Raisa enters with lunch and she and Oliver talk .
Raisa:「You are different . Not like you to read a book .」
Oliver Queen:「I missed you , Raisa .」
Raisa:「No kitchen on the island .」

Oliver Queen:「No . No friends either . ( He stands and walks to her ) Hey . ( He takes the tray from her ) Thank you . ( He sets the tray down ) Do I really seem different ?」
Raisa:「No . You 're still a good boy .」
Oliver Queen:「Oh , I think we both know I was n't .」
Raisa:「But a good heart .」
Oliver Queen:「I hope so . I want to be the person you always told me I could be .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 [ Outside the Mansion ] Oliver is leaving the Mansion when Moira stops him and introduces him to his new bodyguard .
Moira:「Oliver , I want to introduce you to someone ... John Diggle . He 'll be accompanying you from now on .」
Oliver Queen:「I do n't need a babysitter .」
Walter:「Darling , Oliver 's a grown man . And if he does n't feel he needs armed protection-」
Moira:「Yeah , I understand , but this is something I need .」
narration:[ In the car ]
Oliver Queen:「So ... What do I call you ?」
John Diggle:「Diggle 's good . Dig if you want .」
Oliver Queen:「You 're ex - military ?」

Diggle:「Yes , sir . 105th airborne of of Kandahar , retired . Been in the private sector a little more than 4 years now . I do n't want there to be any confusion , Mr. Queen . My ability to keep you from harm will outweigh your comfort . Do we have an agreement ? ( No response ) Sir ? [ The car door opens and closes][Cars honk][Diggle looks behind to find Oliver gone . He slams on the brake ] Sir ! [ He gets out and looks behind . Oliver is gone ]」
narration:[ Oliver walks through the slums . He reaches his father 's old factory , he throws his bags over and scales the fence . He enters the abandoned factory and brings to make lair . In a montage he trains intensively --- sharpening his skills ]
Oliver ( V.O. ):「The abduction was unexpected . It forced me to move up my plans , but what I told the police was true . The man in the green hood was there in that warehouse , and he 's just beginning .」
Television Anchorman:「The suit alleges that Hunt committed multiple acts of fraud and theft against the city 's underprivileged . Laurel Lance , an attorney for the city necessary ...」
Oliver ( V.O. ):「Adam Hunt ... his crimes go deeper than fraud and theft , but he 's been able to bully , bribe , or kill anyone who 's gotten into his way . He has n't met me yet .」
narration:[ Parking Lot ]
Adam Hunt:「You remind Grell I put him on the bench , I can take him off . I will turn him into a cautionary tale .」
Man:「Yes , Mr. Hunt .」
Hunt:「And this attorney Laurel Lance ... you said she was n't gon na be a problem anymore . I told you to fix that situation . [ They stop walking . Hunt walks towards him ] Why are you still here ? [ The man leaves ]」
narration:[ They resume walking to the car when the lights go out and ARROW appears taking out the guards and threatening Hunt 's life ]
Bodyguard 1:「[ Whoosh ] Unh !」
Bodyguard 2:「[ To Hunt ] Get in the car ! [ He fires into the ceiling ]」
Arrow:「Hey . You missed .」
Bodyguard 2:「Unh ! [ Whoosh ] Unh ! [ Whoosh ]」
Hunt:「[ Whoosh . Car door glass smashes ] Unh ! [ He pulled out of the car ] What ? What ? Just ... just tell me what you want .」
Arrow:「You 're gon na transfer $ 40 million into Starling City bank account 1141 by 10 P.M. tomorrow night .」
Hunt:「Or what ?」
Arrow:「Or I 'm gon na take it , and you wo n't like how .」
Hunt:「If I see you again , you 're dead !」
narration:[ Hunt Multinational ] - Hunt gives his statement to the police about his encounter with ARROW . He tells them to back at his office by 10PM to take " The Hooded - Guy " down .

Hunt:「He was wearing a hood , a green hood , and he had a bow and arrow . [ The detectives look at each other ] What , you do n't believe me ? [ He turns to pick up an object from his desk and shows them a green arrow ] That maniac put two of my men in the hospital . [ Detective Hilton takes the arrow ]」
Detective Lance:「Well , thanks for your statement . We 'll put out an APB on ... ( he looks at the arrow then back at Hunt ) Robin Hood ?」
Hunt:「Hey , pal . [ He walks towards him ] I 'm not some grocer who got taken for his register . I go to the front of the line . Now he said he would be back here by 10 P.M. Make sure you 're here first . You can coordinate with Mr. Drakon , my new head of security .」
Detective Lance:「All right . Well , uh , thanks for your time . [ They leave ]」
Detective Hilton:「It looks like Queen was telling the truth .」
Detective Lance:「Yeah . Well , there 's a first time for everything . This hooded guy comes looking for trouble , he 'll find it .」
narration:[ Outside the Queen Mansion ] Oliver is leaves to go to his party . He opens the car door to find Diggle waiting for him inside , ready to accompany him to the party .
Diggle:「Put on your seat belt , sir . Would n't want you to miss your party . [ Oliver gets in and smiles in disbelief ]」
[ Oliver 's Welcome Home Party ] . Oliver arrives at the party . As he descends the stairs he brings out his phone and checks his timer:「9.07PM ( 53 mins left for Adam Hunt to deliver ) . Tommy sees him and ushers him in .」
Tommy:「[ He signals for the music to end ] Everybody , hey ! Man - of - the - hour ! [ crowd cheers ] Whoo ! And , ladies , please give this man a proper homecoming .」
[ Music plays as Oliver approaches and climbs on center stage:「? We are the champions ? We are the champions ? Of the world ? ]」
Oliver Queen:「Thank you very much , everybody !」

Tommy:「Ollie , Ollie , Ollie , Ollie . [ gives him a shot ]」
Oliver Queen:「[ to the crowd ] I missed Tequila ! [ The crowd cheers ]」
narration:[ Hunt Multinational ] - 9.25PM . Hunts ' guards get ready and load their clips into their automatic weapons . Techno music is heard from outside .
Hunt:「What the hell 's going on out there ?」
Drakon:「It 's across the street . Party for the guy that got rescued off that island ... Oliver Queen .」
narration:[ Oliver 's Welcome Home Party ] - Oliver and Tommy check out girls . Diggle stands the background . Oliver sees Thea get drugs from a strange guy .
Tommy:「Hey . Does he wipe for you , too ? Now by my rough estimate , you have not had s*x in 1,839 days . As your wingman , I highly recommend Carmen Golden .」
Oliver Queen:「Which one is she ?」
Tommy:「The one who looks like the chick from " Twilight . "」
Oliver Queen:「What 's " Twilight " ?」
Tommy:「You 're so better off not knowing . ( Oliver sees Thea )」

Oliver Queen:「Back in a minute . ( Diggle follows him . Oliver grabs Thea aside )」
Thea:「Ollie , hey ! This party is sick .」
Oliver Queen:「Who let you in here ?」
Thea:「I believe it was somebody who said , " Right this way , Miss Queen . "」
Oliver Queen:「Well , you should n't be here .」
Thea:「Uh , I 'm not 12 anymore .」
Oliver Queen:「No . You 're 17 .」
Thea:「Ollie , I - I love you , but you ca n't come back here and judge me , especially for being just like you .」
Oliver Queen:「I know that it could n't have been easy for you when I was - away .」
Thea:「Away ? ( she chuckles ) No . You died . My brother and my father died . I went to your funerals .」
Oliver Queen:「I know .」

Thea:「No , you do n't . Mom had Walter , and I had no one . You guys all act like it 's cool , let 's forget about the last 5 years . Well , I ca n't . For me , it 's kind of permanently in there , so I 'm sorry if I turned out some major disappointment , but this - me , is the best I could do with what I had to work with . Let 's bounce .」
Girl:「You have the fun dip ?」
Thea:「Yeah . It 's right - No . I ... I must have dropped it .」
narration:[ Oliver throws the drug in the trash . He proceeds to leave when he bumps into Laurel ]
Oliver Queen:「Oh ! Oh . You 're here .」
Laurel:「Tommy . He made the point that we have too many years between us to leave things the way we left them . Is there someplace quieter that we could go ?」
Oliver Queen:「Yeah .」
narration:[ Observatory Floor ]
Laurel:「I 'm sorry about saying that you should have been the one who died . That was wrong .」
Oliver Queen:「If I could trade places with her , I would .」

Laurel:「About Sarah ... there 's something that I 've been afraid to ask , but I need to know .」
Oliver Queen:「Ok .」
Laurel:「When she died ... did she suffer ?」
Oliver Queen:「[ Flashback ] No . Sarah ! [ she screams and is ripped away by the ocean ] [ Present Day ] No .」
Laurel:「I think about her every day .」
Oliver Queen:「Me , too .」
Laurel:「I guess we still have one thing in common then . I ca n't believe I 'm gon na say this , but ... If you need someone to talk to about what happened to you , I 'm here . [ Oliver 's cell phone vibrates . He checks his phone . 10.00PM - Account balance $ 0 ] Something wrong ?」

Oliver Queen:「I asked somebody to do something . They did n't do it . Laurel ... you always saw the best in me . Right now , that 's what you 're doing , looking at me , and you 're wondering if that island changed me somehow , if it made me a better person . It did n't . Stay away from me . Otherwise ... I 'm just gon na hurt you again , but this time , it 'll be worse . Got ta roll . [ He walks back from her ] I got 5 years of debauchery to catch up on .」
Laurel:「[ Hurt . She walks towards him angered ] You know what , Oliver ? You 're wrong . That island did change you . At least now you 're honest . [ she leaves ]」
narration:[ Service Hallway ]
Diggle:「Something I can help you with , sir ?」
Oliver Queen:「[ turns around ] I just wanted a second to myself .」
Diggle:「I would believe you , Mr. Queen , if you were n't so full of crap . Party 's this way . [ Motions to the door ]」
Oliver Queen:「It 's locked . [ Diggle goes to check and Oliver puts him in a sleeper hold and immobilizes him ]」
narration:[ Hunt Multinational ]

Drakon:「You two cover the elevator . Hang back and be ready . Stay in the corners and stay alert . [ Lock latches ] It 's past 10」
Detective Hilton:「All 's clear .」
Detective Lance:「Yeah .」
Hunt:「You missed .」
Arrow:「Really ?」
Hunt:「He 's here !」
Detective Lance:「All units , converge ! All units , converge !」
Arrow:「Aigh !」
Detective Lance:「Go right , go right . On me .」
Officer:「Lay down your weapons , or we will open fire ! I repeat , lay down your weapons .」
Detective Hilton:「Tell me you saw that .」
Detective Lance:「Ok . Let 's go . Move . Cut it . Search the building roof to basement . Find him ! Starling City police ! The party 's over , kids . [ Booing ] Oh , Mr. Merlyn . Imagine my shock at finding you here . Did you roofie anyone special tonight , huh ?」
Oliver Queen:「Detective ! It 's a private party .」
Detective Lance:「Yeah ? Well , there was an incident at Adam Hunt 's building tonight . You know anything about that ?」
Oliver Queen:「Who 's Adam Hunt ?」

Detective Lance:「He 's a millionaire bottom feeder , and I 'm kind of surprised you are n't friends .」
Oliver Queen:「I 've been out of town for ... a while .」
Detective Lance:「Yeah . Well , he just got attacked by the guy with the hood , the guy that saved your ass the other day .」
Oliver Queen:「The hood guy . You did n't find him ? I 'm gon na offer a reward . Hey , everybody . $ 2 million to anybody that can find a nut bar in a green hood . [ The crowd cheers ]」
Detective Lance:「Did you even try to save her ?」
Detective Hilton:「Ok . Let 's go , partner .」
Detective Lance:「Did you even try to save my daughter ?」
Detective Hilton:「Sarah would n't want this .」
Detective Lance:「It 's not-」
Detective Hilton:「Partner , let 's go . ( low voice ) It 's all right . Let 's go .」
Oliver Queen:「It 's way too quiet in here ! This is a party !」
Tommy:「Some coincidence , I mean , you asking to have your party here , and Hunt getting robbed right next door and by the same guy who rescued us at the warehouse .」

Oliver Queen:「If I were you , Tommy , I 'd just be glad you 're alive .」
Tommy:「What - h - happened to you on that island ?」
Oliver Queen:「A lot」
Hunt:「What the hell are you talking about ? $ 40 million does n't just up and vanish ! Untraceable ? ! It is $ 40 million ! Find it ! How did he do it ?」
Robert:「There 's not enough for all of us . Save your strength . You can survive this , make it home , make it better , right my wrongs , but you got to live through this first . You hear me , Ollie ? You hear me , son ?」
Oliver Queen:「Just rest , dad .」
Gus:「No !」
Oliver Queen:「Dad ? !」
Robert:「Survive .」
Oliver Queen:「No !」

narration:THUNDER CRASHING
Oliver ( voiceover ):「The day I went missing ... was the day I died . Five years in hell forged me into a weapon , which I use to honor a vow I made to my father , who sacrificed his life for mine . In his final moments , he told me the truth ... that our family 's wealth had been built on the suffering of others . That he failed our city , and that it was up to me to save it and right his wrongs . But to do that without endangering the people closest to me , I have to be someone else . I have to be something else .」
narration:EXT . ROOFTOP - NIGHT
 Arrow is standing on the roof as men start running at him .
Marcus Redman:「Who 's that ?」
Man 2:「Where 'd he come from ? Arrow fights three men and wins , while three others watch .」
Man 3:「What 's going on here ?」
narration:SHOUTING
 Arrow shoots an arrow at one of the three men .
Marcus Redman:「Get the chopper back now . Arrow shoots an arrow at one of the original four men .
 Who 's this guy ? Arrow shoots another man , and then punches him with the bow .
 Whoa , whoa , whoa ! Please , wait , wait ! Arrow backs Marcus Redman against the edge of the building and throws him to the lower roof , on top of the ventilator fan .」
narration:Marcus Redman SCREAMING
 Arrow jumps onto the ventilator fan next to Marcus Redman and kicks open the grate covering the fan . Sparks explode from the fan .
 Marcus Redman GROANING
 Arrow grabs Marcus Redman and forces his head toward the fan .
Marcus Redman:「No ? No , please ! No , please , please !」
Arrow:「Marcus Redman , you failed this city .」
Marcus Redman:「Please ! No , please , no ! Do n't hurt me , please !」
Arrow:「Cell phone , inside pocket , call your partner . Tell him to give those pensioners back their money .」
Marcus Redman:「Oh , please do n't !」
Arrow:「Do it now .」
Marcus Redman:「Okay . Arrow jumps off of the ventilator fan and walks into the camera .」
narration:INT . QUEEN MANSION - DAY
 Oliver walks into the sitting room where Moira Queen is sitting on the couch with Walter standing behind the couch and Thea Queen standing next to the couch .
Newscaster ( voiceover ):「Over the past 15 years , Mr. Redman has withdrawn more than 30 million dollars from the plant 's account . Mr. Redman claims refunding the Halcyon pension plan has always been his intent . But sources say Redman was coerced by the vigilante . Sketch of the Arrow appears on the television with the caption reading MYSTERIOUS HOODED VIGILANTE . Oliver extends his arm in disbelief toward the television .」
Oliver Queen:「This guy gets more air - time than the Kardashians , right ?」

Thea:「Five years on an island and you still know who they are .」
Oliver Queen:「I 've been catching up . It 's nice to see how much our culture has improved while I was away .」
Moira:「No , the city used to be different . People used to feel safe .」
Thea:「Oh , what 's the matter , Mom ? Afraid we 're gon na be next ?」
Walter:「Do you have any questions about today , Oliver ? It 's a simple proof - of - life declaration . Moira stands up and Walter straightens his suit jacket .
 Just read out a brief , prepared statement to the judge , and then your death - in - absentia judgment will be voided .」
Oliver Queen:「It 's fine , Walter , I 've been in a courtroom before . Tommy enters .」
Tommy:「Four times by my estimate . You know , there was the DUI , the assault on that paparazzi douchebag , stealing that taxi , which was just awesome , by the way , and who could forget peeing on the cop ?」
Moira:「I wish everyone would .」
Oliver Queen:「I 'd hang , but we 're headed to court .」

Tommy:「I know , that 's why I 'm here . My best friend is getting legally resurrected , I would n't miss this for the world .」
Oliver ( whispering ):「Right . Okay . ( normal volume to Thea ) What about you ?」
Thea:「Oh , I think the first four times of you in court was enough for me .」
Oliver Queen:「Fair enough . Thea walks out of the room . Diggle enters .」
Diggle:「Mrs. Queen ? Car 's ready . Diggle , Moira , Walter exit .」
Tommy:「Walter .」
narration:EXT . COURTHOUSE - DAY
 PRESS CLAMORING
Man:「Mr. Queen , can we get a comment , sir ?」
Woman:「... return to civilization after five years on a deserted island .」
Man 2:「Can you tell us what happened on that island , Mr. Queen ?」
narration:FLASHBACK
 Oliver and Sara on are thrown from the bed as the boat starts to sink . Sara screams .
 END FLASHBACK
Man:「Tell us about the accident , Mr. Queen .」
narration:CAMERAS CLICKING
Woman:「5 years on an island .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 Oliver watches Sara slide away . Oliver reaches for Sara 's hand .

Oliver Queen:「Sara !」
narration:Sara SCREAMING
 END FLASHBACK
 INT . COURTROOM - DAY
Oliver Queen:「There was a storm . The boat went down . I was the only survivor .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 The boat is sinking and rain pours from the sky . Oliver , his Father , and another man are on a life raft .
Oliver Queen:「She 's out there !」
Father:「She 's not there !」
Oliver Queen:「Sara !」
narration:END FLASHBACK
Oliver Queen:「My father did n't make it .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 Father holds a gun to his head .
Oliver Queen:「No !」
narration:GUNSHOT
 END FLASHBACK
Oliver Queen:「I almost died , I ... I thought that I had , because I spent so many days on that life raft before I saw the island .」
narration:FLASHBACK
Oliver ( voiceover ):「When I reached it , I knew ...」
narration:Oliver crawls onto the island , coughing .
Oliver ( voiceover ):「I knew that I was gon na have to live for both of us .」
narration:END FLASHBACK

Oliver Queen:「And in those five years , it was that one thought that kept me going .」
Lawyer:「Your Honor , we move to vitiate the death - in - absentia filed after Oliver 's disappearance at sea aboard the Queen 's Gamut five years ago . Unfortunately we will not be requesting that the declaration of death filed for the petitioner 's father , Robert Queen , be rescinded . The Queen family is only entitled to one miracle , I 'm afraid .」
narration:INT . COURTHOUSE - DAY
Moira:「Now , onto the offices . Everyone is waiting to meet you there .」
Oliver Queen:「Uh , Mom , that was , uh ... a little bit heavier than I was expecting it to be . Can we do that tomorrow ? Please ?」
Moira:「Of course .」
Oliver Queen:「Thank you .」
narration:Walter and Moira walk away .
Tommy:「Last week , you could n't wait to get to the company .」
Oliver Queen:「Tommy , I 'd just spent five years away from civilization . I was n't exactly thinking straight . Oliver and Tommy run into Laurel .I ... Hi .」
Tommy:「Hi .」
Laurel:「What are you doing here ?」

Oliver Queen:「Oh , they were bringing me back from the dead . Legally speaking . What are you doing here ?」
Laurel:「My job .」
Oliver Queen:「Right .」
Lawyer:「More like the D.A. 's . Oliver extends his hand to Emily , standing to the right of Laurel .」
Oliver Queen:「Hi , Oliver Queen . Emily shakes his hand .」
Emily:「Emily Nocenti .」
Laurel:「Oliver just got back from five years on an uncharted island . Before that , he was cheating on me with my sister . He was with her when she died . And last week , he told me to stay away from him . It was really good advice . Excuse me . Laurel walks past Oliver and Tommy .」
Emily:「It was nice to meet you .」
Lawyer:「Yeah . Let 's go . They walk past Oliver and Tommy to follow Laurel .」
Tommy:「Come on , buddy , shake it off . Let 's go .」
narration:EXT . COURTHOUSE - DAY
Reporter:「Mr. Somers , one question , sir .」

Somers:「I do n't know what I 've done to earn this witch - hunt from Miss Lance and her bosses at the CNRI . But I can tell you this . I am an honest businessman , and I will fight this slander to my last dime and breath . That 's all I have to say , thank you .」
narration:REPORTERS TALKING INDISTINCTLY
Reporter 2:「There 's Mr. Queen !」
narration:REPORTERS TALKING INDISTINCTLY
Reporter:「Tell us what happened inside , Mr. Queen ...」
narration:Diggle walks with Oliver and Tommy to the car .
Diggle:「Step back everybody , please .」
Reporter:「Can you give us a couple comments about the island , Mr. Queen ? Before you go , sir , please . Couple of comments about the island , sir .」
Reporter 2:「What happened in there ?」
Diggle:「All right . Everybody step back . Diggle shoves the reporters away .」
Diggle ( angrily ):「Hey man , I 'll make you swallow that Nikon ! Back !」
narration:CAR DRIVING AWAY
 Diggle and Tommy watch the car leave .
Tommy:「This happens to you a lot , does n't it ? Diggle is obviously frustrated .」
narration:INT . COURTROOM - DAY
Laurel:「How much is a life worth ? A life of a man , a good man , a stevedore on the docks of the city in which we live .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 Somers is standing while two men drag Victor Nocenti toward him .
Laurel ( voiceover ):「A father .」
narration:END FLASHBACK
Laurel:「A man with a daughter . The plaintiff will prove by a preponderance of evidence that Victor Nocenti learned that his boss , that man sitting right there , Martin Somers , was taking bribes from the Chinese Triads to smuggle drugs into our city .」
narration:FLASHBACK
Laurel ( voiceover ):「And when Victor Nocenti threatened to tell the police ,」
narration:Man slits Victor 's throat .
 CHOKING
 Martin Somers had him killed .
 END FLASHBACK
Laurel:「Mr. Somers is very well - connected , and has friends in the District Attorney 's office . Which is why , if Emily Nocenti is to get justice for her father 's death , if Martin Somers is to get justice for his crimes , then someone is going to have to do it for them .」
narration:INT . WAREHOUSE - DAY
 Oliver is shirtless , showing all of the scars he had gotten on the island , and starts climbing a thick rope . The camera pans to several green arrowheads on a table .

Oliver ( voiceover ):「Martin Somers . Laurel 's targeted the worst of Starling City , so it 's no surprise his name is on my father 's list . Camera pans to father 's list . Camera pans to Oliver practicing sword skills on metal bars .
 The city 's police and the D.A. ca n't stop him , or wo n't . Laurel thinks she 's the only one willing to bring him to justice . She 's wrong .」
narration:INT . SHIPPING DOCK WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
Somers:「You , listen up . The longer this goes on , the more likely the media is gon na crucify me . You shut this trial down , do you understand me ?」
narration:ELECTRICITY CRACKLING
Man:「Yes , sir .」
narration:LIGHTS FLASH ON AND OFF
 BLOWS LANDING
 MEN GROANING
 MUTTERS
 Somers looks around as the light come back on . The two men in the warehouse are lying on the ground , face - down .
Somers:「What ... What ... Somers is pulled away by a quick rope around the neck .」
narration:CHOKING
 EXT . SHIPPING WAREHOUSE ROOF - NIGHT
 GRUNTS
 Camera opens with Somers ' upside - down view of the Arrow . Camera flips right side - up .
Arrow:「Martin Somers ...」
Somers:「Who the hell are you ?」
Arrow:「... you 've failed this city . Arrow lodges an arrow in his bow and aims at Somers .」
Somers:「No ! No , no , no , no , no ! Arrow shoots next to Somers .」
Arrow:「You 're gon na testify in that trial . You 're gon na confess to having Victor Nocenti killed . Camera shows upside - down view of the Arrow .
 There wo n't be a second warning . Arrow shoots an arrow that grazes Somers ' right cheek .」
narration:SCREAMING IN PAIN
 MUTTERING
 Camera pans out and Arrow is gone .
 INT . QUEEN MANSION - NIGHT
Moira:「I hired you to protect my son . Now , I 'm not a professional bodyguard , but it seems to me that the first requirement would be managing to stay next to the man you 're hired to protect .」
Diggle:「With all due respect , ma'am , I never had a client who did n't want my protection .」
Moira:「I hired you . That makes me the client . Now where do you think my son is going on these chaperone - less excursions ?」
Diggle:「Ma'am , I truly do not know .」
narration:Oliver walks into the room .
Oliver Queen:「And he truly does n't .」

Moira:「Then perhaps you 'd like to share with me , you know , where it is you run off to .」
narration:Oliver CHUCKLES
Oliver Queen:「I 've been alone for five years .」
Moira:「I know that , Oliver .」
Oliver Queen:「Mom ... Alone .」
Moira:「I see .」
Oliver Queen:「I promise to introduce her if it ever gets to the exchanging first names stage ...」
Moira:「No , I 'd rather you promised to take Mr. Diggle with you on your next rendezvous . It 's not safe , you 've already been abducted once . There is a maniac out there , hunting the wealthy .」
Oliver Queen:「That maniac saved my life .」
Moira:「This is n't a game . I lost you once . And I am not going through that again .」
Oliver Queen:「Okay . Dig 's my guy .」
Moira:「Thank you .」
narration:Moira walks out of the room , leaving Oliver and Diggle alone .
Oliver Queen:「Sorry to give you so much grief .」

Diggle:「I served three tours in Afghanistan , Mr. Queen . You do n't even come close to my definition of " grief . " But I tell you what ... You ditch me one more time , no one will have to fire me . Diggle walks away , passing Thea dressed in a red dress .」
Oliver Queen:「Where you going ?」
Thea:「Uh ... Somewhere loud and smoky . And do n't bother trying to pickpocket my stash this time , because I 'm gon na go get drunk instead .」
Oliver Queen:「Thea , do you think this is what Dad would want for you ?」
Thea:「Dead people do n't want anything . It 's one of the benefits of being dead . Oliver
 Except for your family . You 've been home a week , and all you do is avoid Mom , ignore Walter , and judge me .」
narration:Oliver SIGHING
Thea:「Do n't wait up .」
narration:Thea walks out of the house .
 INT . SHIPPING WAREHOUSE - DAY
 Quentin , Somers , and a group of policemen are in the warehouse . Quentin is pacing .

Quentin:「Well , I owe you an apology , Mr. Somers . We come all the way down to your docks , and it turns out , you do n't need the police after all .」
Somers:「Which is exactly what I 've been saying .」
Quentin:「Yeah . So I guess that 9 - 1 - 1 call that we got last night from your stevedore , saying that you were getting attacked by a guy in a green hood and a bow and arrow ... I - I guess ... I guess that , well ... Hmm . Was that a practical joke ?」
Somers:「These guys like to fool around .」
Quentin:「Yeah .」
narration:Quentin SCOFFING
Quentin:「Well , you know , I 'd be very much inclined to believe an honest , upstanding businessman like yourself , except , well , one of my men found this at your docks .」
narration:Quentin pulls a green arrow out of an evidence bag and shows it to Somers .
Quentin:「You see , there 's this vigilante running around . He thinks he 's some kind of Robin Hood . He 's robbing the rich , he 's trying to teach them a lesson I guess . I do n't know , I do n't know . But the point is ... the man 's a killer . And nothing , and no one , is going to stop me from bringing him down . But like you said ... Quentin sticks the arrows into a slot in the desk . It 's a perfect fit . Somers frowns , obviously hiding something .
 Hmm ! ... clearly , nothing happened here last night .」
Somers:「Is n't this a conflict of interest , Detective ? After all , your daughter is suing me .」
Quentin:「I 'm pretty good at keeping my emotions in check .」
Somers:「I 'm not . Somers stands up and threateningly gets in Quentin 's space .
 You and your daughter do n't want to find out what I 'm capable of when I get emotional .」
narration:Quentin SCOFFS
 Quentin SIGHING
 Quentin walks and the other policemen walk out . Somers looks nervously at the arrow in his desk .
 INT . QUEEN CONSOLIDATED - DAY
 Walter walks off of the elevator , followed by Moira , Oliver , and Diggle .
Walter:「As you can see , Oliver , we 've modernized quite a bit .」
narration:Oliver WHISTLING
Oliver Queen:「Ooh . Hi .」

narration:CHUCKLING SOFTLY
Moira:「Are you enjoying yourself ?」
Oliver Queen:「Yes , I am .」
Walter:「I remember when your father used to bring you here when you were a boy . You always were so excited .」
Oliver Queen:「Dad let me drink soda in the office .」
Moira:「Ah , so that 's why you enjoyed coming .」
narration:INT . OFFICE - DAY
Walter:「The Queen Consolidated 's success of late is a result of its targeted diversification . We have been making impressive inroads in cutting - edge fields like bio - tech and clean energy .」
Oliver Queen:「That 's neat . ( to secretary ) Excuse me ? Can I get a sparkling water , or something cold , please ?」
Moira:「Sweetheart , Oliver , Walter and I have something to discuss with you . Come , please sit .」
Oliver Queen:「Mom , it makes me nervous when you ask me to sit down .」
Walter:「The company 's about to break ground on a new site for the Applied Sciences division , and we would like to honor your father by dedicating the building in his name .」
Oliver Queen:「Nice .」

Moira:「And we 'd like to make an announcement at the dedication that you will be taking a leadership position in the company .」
Oliver Queen:「No .」
Moira:「No , your ... Your company .」
Oliver Queen:「No , I do n't want to lead anything . Besides , Walter is doing a very good job here .」
Moira:「You said that you wanted to be a different person . You are Robert Queen 's son .」
Oliver Queen:「I do n't need to be reminded of that .」
Moira:「Well , obviously you do .」
Walter:「Everyone here understands that this transition is really difficult for you .」
Oliver Queen:「Thank you , Walter . Which part , though ? Everyone fantasizing that I got my MBA while I was on the island ? Or the fact that my father 's CFO now sleeps down the hall from me ?」
narration:Moira starts walking away , but turns around and looks at Oliver .
Moira:「You know , five years ago , your irresponsibility was somewhat charming . It is a lot less so now . Moira walks out and Walter goes after her .」
narration:EXT . QUEEN CONSOLIDATED - NIGHT
 Diggle walks out of the building ahead of Oliver to keep him from the press .
Reporter:「There he is !」

narration:CAMERAS CLICKING
 PRESS CLAMORING
 Diggle escorts Oliver through the horde of reporters . They both get into the backseats of a car .
Diggle:「The driver will be here in a minute .」
Oliver Queen:「Okay .」
Diggle:「You know , I spent the first 27 years of my life in Starling City , and the next five in Afghanistan . You want to know what I learned ?」
Oliver Queen:「There 's no place like home ?」
Diggle:「No , just the opposite . Home is a battlefield . Back home , they 're all trying to get you . Get you to open up , be somebody you 're not sure you are anymore . Oliver seems to be far away and deep in thought .
 Or I could be wrong . Maybe after five years alone , you 're not as messed up in the head as you have every right to be .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 Oliver is lying on the ground .
 SEAGULLS SQUAWKING
Oliver Queen:「Hey !」
narration:Seagulls are swarming around the life raft that had washed onto the shore .
Oliver Queen:「Hey , get away ! Oliver starts running toward the raft .Hey !」
narration:COUGHING
 There is an orange bag holding a body in the raft .

Oliver Queen:「Dad ? Oliver kneels by the raft and takes the hand of the dead man . He jumps up and starts throwing up , collapsing on his hands and kneels .」
narration:SEAGULLS GET LOUDER
 Oliver scrambles back toward his father .
Oliver Queen:「Hey ! Hey , stay away from him !」
narration:COUGHING
 Oliver lifts his father 's body over his shoulder .
 GRUNTING
 Oliver starts walking away with the body .
 END FLASHBACK
 INT . LAW FIRM - DAY
 Lawyer , Laurel , and Emily are walking together .
Lawyer:「Well , we anticipate that Somers ' attorney will try and paint you as blinded by grief or looking to make a buck .」
Emily:「This is n't about the money . I just want justice for my father .」
Laurel:「Emily , there are a lot of people who do n't want this trial to proceed . Dangerous people .」
Emily:「My mother died when I was a baby , and my father has been the only family I 've ever known and they slit his throat . They are going to have to kill me if they want me to give this up .」
Laurel:「Well , let 's hope it does n't come to that . Quentin walks into the room with three police officers .」

Quentin:「And it wo n't .」
Laurel:「What 's going on ?」
Quentin:「What 's going on is that the three of you are getting around - the - clock police protection . Okay ? Get used to their faces , because they 're going with you everywhere you go . No arguments .」
Laurel:「I 'm a lawyer . I live to argue .」
Quentin:「I 'm your father . I live to keep you safe .」
Lawyer:「Um , Emily , let 's go grab a cup of coffee , okay ?」
Quentin:「Yes , why not do that ? Thank you . ( to officers ) Please , go with them . ( to last officer)Stay there .」
Laurel:「Protective custody ? I seem to recall you trying that once I discovered boys . It did n't work then either .」
narration:Quentin SIGHING
Quentin:「This is n't a joke , Laurel . Martin Somers got attacked last night .」
Laurel:「What ?」
Quentin:「Yeah .」
Laurel:「By who ?」
Quentin:「It does n't matter . Point is , you have whipped up a storm with these guys , and until the dust settles you 'll be protected , okay ? End of discussion .」
Laurel:「That might have worked when I was eight . But it 's not gon na work anymore .」
Quentin:「End of discussion , Laurel ! You 're insistent on doing your job . That 's great . But this is me doing mine , okay ? And not just as a father , but as a cop . These people , they are more dangerous than you are willing to admit . And you 've made them angry .」
narration:INT . SHIPPING WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
 Somers sitting at his desk . Woman walks in wearing red dress .
Somers:「Thank you for coming .」
Woman:「Anything for a friend .」
Somers:「We 're not friends . You smuggle drugs , I let you use my port .」
Woman:「For which you 're paid a lot of money .」
Somers:「I do n't get paid enough to have arrows shot at me . You need to take this guy seriously . He is a bigger threat to your operation than Nocenti ever was .」
Woman:「Except now it 's Nocenti 's daughter who 's the problem . Unlike your friend with the hood , we know where to find her .」
Somers:「Do n't be an idiot . You take out Emily Nocenti , and Laurel Lance will never let this go . She wo n't stop until she burns you , me , and then the entire Triad to the ground .」
Woman:「Then we kill Miss Lance . Somers looks clearly nervous .」
narration:INT . OLIVER 'S ROOM - DAY
Newscaster:「Attorney for shipping magnate , Martin Somers ,」
narration:Oliver walks into the scene . His shirt is off , showing the scars in his back , sides , and arms .

Newscaster:「has confirmed his client has no intention of testifying , maintaining his innocence in the wrongful death of Victor Nocenti . Nocenti 's body was found four weeks ago . We 'll keep you updated as more information becomes available .」
narration:Thea walks into the room and sees Oliver 's scars as he puts a shirt on .
Thea:「Wait , how did you get those ?」
narration:Oliver SIGHING
Oliver ( frustrated ):「Do n't you knock ?」
narration:Thea pulls back his shirt to get a better look at his scars . Oliver frowns at his sister 's insistent behavior .
Thea:「No , wait ... Mom said that there were scars , but ... I - I 'm ... Oliver , what happened to you out there ?」
Oliver Queen:「I do n't want to talk about it . Oliver closes and buttons his shirt .」
narration:Thea SCOFFS
Thea:「Of course you do n't . You never want to talk to me about anything . Except for my social life .」
narration:Thea starts walking out . Oliver turns to her .
Oliver Queen:「Wait ! Where are you going ?」
Thea:「Why should I tell you ?」

Oliver Queen:「I 'm sorry , Thea . I need to get better at talking about what happened to me there . But I 'm not ready yet . Okay ?」
Thea:「Do you have a second ?」
Oliver Queen:「Yeah .」
Thea:「Good . I wanna show you something out back .」
narration:EXT . QUEEN MANSION - DAY
 Thea and Oliver walking with the mansion in the background .

Thea:「Sometimes , when I felt ... Whatever ... I 'd come here . Camera shows two gravestones . One says
 About a month after the funerals , Mom stopped going out . Pretty soon , she stopped talking altogether . Oliver looks at the stones and Thea stands .
 The house got so quiet , so I 'd come here . To talk to you . Thea points to the other gravestone . The stone says
 I mean , stupid stuff . Like what I was doing that day , what boy I had a crush on ... And then sometimes , I 'd ask you , beg you , to find your way home to me . Now , here you are . And the truth is , I felt closer to you when you were dead . Look , I know it was hell where you were . But it was hell here too . You got ta let me in , Ollie . You got ta let someone in . Thea walks away . Camera shows Oliver 's gravestone again .」
narration:INT . LAUREL 'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
 Laurel is sitting in a chair , leaning over her laptop .
 KNOCK ON DOOR
 MUSIC PLAYING
 KNOCK , KNOCK , KNOCK
 Laurel answers the door and sees Oliver . She is n't happy .
Oliver Queen:「Hi . Are you okay ? There are two cop cars outside .」

Laurel:「How am I supposed to stay away from you if you wo n't stay away from me ?」
Oliver Queen:「I ...」
Laurel:「What are you doing here , Ollie ?」
Oliver Queen:「My sister took ... She pointed out to me that I have been distant since I got back and that ... It would probably be a good idea if I let somebody in .」
Laurel:「So , you thought you 'd start with the first person you pushed away .」
Oliver Queen:「I did that to protect you . And then I saw you yesterday , and I realized that I hurt you .」
narration:Laurel SIGHING
 Laurel steps aside , letting Oliver into her apartment .
Oliver Queen:「Thank you . They walk around the apartment .Wow . This place has n't changed in five years . ( CHUCKLING )」
Laurel ( frustrated ):「I have n't really had time to redecorate .」
Oliver Queen:「I 'm a jerk . Before the island , I was a jerk . And now I 'm just a ... I 'm a damaged jerk .」
Laurel:「What 's in the bag ? Oliver swings the brown paper bag in his hand .」

Oliver Queen:「I thought about many things on the island , but there was one thing that I thought about every day . I actually dreamed about it , and I promised myself that if I ever got a chance to do it again , I 'd do it with you . Oliver holds up a tub of ice cream .Eat ice cream . Oliver sits on the floor and Laurel sits on her couch eating ice cream . He puts the ice cream on the table .This is as good as I remember . My mother wants me to join the company . Laurel smirks .Yeah . Take my rightful place .」
Laurel:「I ca n't exactly picture you as master of the universe .」
Oliver Queen:「You know , after five years , I have plans . I have things that I have to do . I ca n't do that if I 'm ... I do n't know ... Attending board meetings and stockholder briefings .」
Laurel:「Oliver ? You 're an adult . You can say no .」
Oliver Queen:「Oh , I tried . Did n't take .」
Laurel:「Well , then do n't tell her . Show her . Be the person that you want her to see you as . Trust me . I have plenty of experience with disapproving parents .」

Oliver Queen:「I have been on the receiving end of your father 's disapproval .」
Laurel:「He blames himself more than he blames you . He thinks that , you know , maybe if he and Sara were closer , she would have told him about the boat trip . And he could have stopped her from going with you .」
Oliver Queen:「I am sorry .」
Laurel:「You apologized already .」
Oliver Queen:「And it 'll never be enough .」
narration:THUD
Oliver Queen:「Did you hear that ?」
Laurel:「What ?」
narration:SOFT FOOTSTEP
 Oliver takes a butter knife and stands up .
Oliver Queen:「There 's someone on the fire escape .」
Laurel:「Wh - What ? Oliver grabs Laurel 's hand and starts running with her .」
Oliver Queen:「Hey , come on ... Come on ! They run toward the door and a man breaks through the door with a machine gun into Laurel 's apartment . Oliver pulls Laurel the other way .」

narration:MACHINE GUN FIRING
 LAUREL SCREAMS
 Another man crashes in through Laurel 's bedroom window .
 GUNSHOTS
 The woman from the warehouse enters and puts her fists up for a fight .
 GUN CLICKS
 GUNSHOTS
 One of the men with guns is shot . The woman runs . Diggle enters and shoots another man . The woman knocks the gun from Diggle 's hands and they fight .
 BOTH GRUNTING
 Oliver is struggling with whether or not to help or keep his skills secret . Oliver leaves Laurel and runs into the kitchen for a knife . The woman pins Diggle and raises her hand to stab him . Oliver throws his knife and knocks the woman 's knife away . The woman gets up and runs out of the apartment . Laurel runs into Oliver 's arms . Diggle stands and gets his gun .
Diggle:「Are you hurt ?」
Oliver Queen:「No .」
Diggle ( yelling ):「Are you hurt , Mr. Queen ?」
Oliver Queen:「No ! No .」
Diggle:「This is why it 's a good idea to have a bodyguard .」
narration:SIRENS BLARING
Oliver ( softly ):「Hey , you okay ?」

narration:SIREN WAILING
 INT . LAUREL 'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
 Several cops and medics are in the apartment . Diggle , Laurel and Oliver stand watching . Quentin walks in . Quentin and Laurel hug .
Laurel:「Daddy !」
Quentin:「Oh , thank God . Thank God . Are you all right ?」
Laurel:「I 'm okay . Those cops that you put on me ...」
narration:Quentin SIGHING
Quentin:「They ...」
Diggle:「I went outside to ask for a light , and they were both dead in the squad car .」
narration:Laurel covers her mouth in tears .
Quentin:「It 's okay . Mr. Diggle , thank you . Feel free to run as many red lights in the city as you want .」
Diggle:「I was just doing my job , sir .」
Quentin:「No , your job is protecting him . ( to Oliver ) It seems like whenever you 're with one of my daughters , people die . You stay away from Laurel , or I swear the next time you disappear , it will be permanent .」
Laurel:「Dad !」
Quentin:「No , Laurel ...」
Oliver Queen:「It 's okay . I understand .」

Quentin:「Yeah . Laurel .」
narration:INT . QUEEN MANSION - NIGHT
 Oliver tosses a towel to Diggle and starts walking away . Diggle stands and walks after Oliver .
Oliver Queen:「I 'd say thank you , but I do n't think that would cover it .」
Diggle:「Well , like I told your cop friend , I was just doing my job . Besides , I think it should be you that I 'm thanking . Oliver stops and turns around with a fake confused look .」
Oliver Queen:「What for ?」
Diggle:「The knife .」
Oliver Queen:「The knife . I got lucky .」
Diggle:「That was a kitchen knife . It was n't even weighted properly , yet you threw it with accuracy across a 10-foot room .」
Oliver Queen:「Exactly . I got lucky .」
Diggle:「I 'm not the kind of man you want to take for a fool , Mr. Queen . You understand me ?」
Oliver Queen:「Yes .」
Diggle:「And I think I 'm just beginning to understand the kind of man you are .」
Oliver Queen:「Should n't take you very long . I 'm shallow . And very tired , so ... Good night .」

Diggle ( smirking ):「Good night , sir .」
narration:INT . WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
 Oliver is dressed as Arrow in his warehouse . He is putting on his gloves .
Oliver ( voiceover ):「I wanted to give Martin Somers the chance to confess and face a court 's justice , but he chose to go after someone I care about instead .」
narration:Arrow puts on his belt and quiver . Arrow flips on his hood .
Oliver Queen:「He 's still going to face justice .」
narration:Arrow opens a crate and takes out his bow .
Oliver Queen:「It 'll just be a different kind .」
narration:INT . WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
 Somers is packing files with another man in the room .
Somers:「Triad bitch screwed up the hit on Lance . Now , the Triad is gon na erase every ounce of evidence of their smuggling operation , including me . Except that 's not gon na happen . Tell Wallace to get the boat ready . I 'm leaving tonight .」
Man ( on radio ):「Wallace ? Wallace , you copy ? Wallace ?」
Arrow ( on radio ):「Wallace is n't here . But I am .」
Somers:「We need to move , now . Move !」
Man:「Sir , we 've got six men up there .」

Somers:「It 's not enough . Move it !」
narration:INT . LAUREL 'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Quentin:「You 're gon na go back into that courtroom tomorrow , and you 're gon na recuse yourself from this case , all right ? Or drop it . Either way , you 're done .」
Laurel:「If you think I 'm gon na abandon Emily Nocenti , then you do n't know me all that well .」
Quentin:「You do n't know me well , young lady . I will lock you in a cell if that 's what it takes .」
narration:Laurel stands up .
Laurel:「Well , I guess that 's what it 's gon na take then .」
Quentin:「Damn it , Laurel ! I thought after what happened with Sara , you 'd stop being just so reckless .」
Laurel:「It 's not about being reckless ! It 's just the opposite . I 'm trying to make this city safer , just like you .」
Quentin:「Sweetie . You 're my only daughter , Laurel . You 're all I have left to live for .」
Laurel:「But what you want from me is n't living . Having cops around , not being able to do my job .」
Quentin:「Your job is not going after people like the Triad or Somers .」
Laurel:「My job is to use the law to fight for what is right . Just like you taught me .」
Quentin:「Well , that 's dirty」
Laurel:「Well ... Maybe I picked that up along the way , too .」
narration:Quentin LAUGHS
 CELL PHONE RINGING
Quentin ( into phone ):「Lance .」
Man on phone:「Sir , we got a report from the warfside , Somers Imports .」
Quentin:「I 'll be right there . ( hangs up phone ) I got ta go . Something 's going on at the docks .」
narration:INT . WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
 MACHINE GUN FIRING
 Arrow shoots an arrow into a man . He jumps along the high metal beams and jumped to the ground , crouching . Arrow shoots another man . A third man rounds the corner with a machine gun and Arrow jumps over the side of a fence in the warehouse . Arrow shoots another man and runs toward a fifth , shooting him . He runs down stairs and nocks another arrow . He shoots another man , who falls off of a ledge . Arrow sees Somers run into a different warehouse .
Arrow:「Somers !」
narration:INT . DIFFERENT WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
 Somers PANTING
 Arrow enters the warehouse .
 Somers YELLING
 Arrow shoots an arrow into a wooden crate next to Somers ' head .
 ARROW THUDS
 Somers GROANING
Somers ( yelling ):「Oh , God , no , no , no .」
Arrow:「He ca n't help you .」
narration:Arrow shoots another arrow onto the other side of Somers ' head .

Arrow ( yelling[i ] ):「I want the truth about Victor Nocenti .」
Somers ( [ i]stuttering ):「I ca n't . The Triad will kill me .」
Arrow:「The Triad 's not your concern right now . Arrow shoots another arrow between Somers ' legs .」
narration:WHIMPERING LOUDLY
Somers:「All right , all right , all right . ( shakily ) It was n't me that killed him . It was the Triad .」
Arrow:「Acting on whose instructions ?」
narration:Arrow shoots again above Somers ' head .
 Somers SCREAMING
Arrow ( yelling ):「Whose ?」
Somers:「All right , all right . It was mine . It was mine , all right ? Nocenti said he was gon na testify against me .」
narration:Arrow turns around and sees the Woman that attacked in Laurel 's apartment .
Woman ( in foreign language ):「Move away from him .」
Arrow ( in same foreign language ):「Make me . Arrow and the Woman fight . They both are very skilled .」
narration:GRUNTING
 SIRENS APPROACHING
 Woman knocks Arrow to the ground .
Policeman ( over megaphone ):「This is the police . Drop your weapons . Arrow and the Woman run in opposite directions .
 You are surrounded . Come out with your hands in the air . Arrow runs outside and climbs over a storage unit . He starts to run and stops at the click of a gun .」
Quentin ( pointing gun ):「Freeze ! You twitch and you 're dead . Bow down , hands up . Arrow grabs an arrow from his leg sheath and throws it at Quentin . Quentin drops his gun .」
narration:SIRENS WAILING
 GRUNTS
 Quentin stumbles back and looks around to see no trace of the Arrow , other than a blinking arrow holding his gun to the storage unit . Quentin presses a button on the blinking arrow .
 RECORDING REWINDING
 RECORDING PLAYS
Somers:「All right , all right . It was mine . It was mine , all right ? Nocenti said he was gon na testify against me .」
Quentin ( looking around ):「You son of a bitch .」
narration:SIRENS WAILING
 INT . OLIVER 'S WAREHOUSE - DAY
 Arrow puts his bow away .
Oliver ( voiceover ):「Laurel was right . I ca n't be the Oliver my mother wants me to be and still keep the promise I made to my father . Arrow starts taking off his outfit .
 I have to be the person I need them to see me as .」
narration:EXT . ROBERT QUEEN MEMORIAL APPLIED SCIENCES CENTER - DAY
Tommy:「Oh ! Excuse me , ladies . ( walking up to Laurel ) Okay , this is a surprise . Did you show up here by mistake ?」
Laure:「By invitation . Oliver invited me last night .」
Tommy:「Last night ?」
Laurel:「Is that surprise or jealousy I 'm hearing ?」

Tommy:「Look , I just do n't want him to find out anything , okay ? Oliver has been through a lot .」
Laurel:「Tommy , we 've all been through a lot .」
Walter:「Good afternoon . And thank you all for coming . Welcome to the future site of the Robert Queen Memorial Applied Sciences Center .」
narration:Everyone applauds .
Walter:「Now , this is a building that will stand as a monument to the man whose company and vision are his greatest legacies .」
Oliver Queen:「Whoa ! Whoa ! Oliver walks over and takes a drink of champagne .What about me ? Right ? I 'm a legacy . Hey ! Thanks for warming them up , Walt . ( grunts and gets onto stage ) All right . Ow ! Fine , fine shovel . I got it . Oliver takes the shovel from Walter and almost drops it .Whoa ! Ow !」
Woman:「He must be drunk .」
Oliver ( whispering ):「I 'm kidding . I 'm kidding . I got it . I got it . Oliver leans into the microphone .」

Oliver Queen:「Some of you may not know me . My name is Oliver Queen . Watch some television , read a newspaper , I 'm kind of famous right now . Mostly , though , I 'm famous because I 'm Robert Queen 's son . Uh , but as Walter , who 's my new dad ... Huh ? Who is ... Sorry . As Walter was saying , I 'm not much of a legacy , per se .」
Walter:「Oliver , you do n't have to do this .」
Oliver Queen:「No , sit . Sit ! Gosh . See , I was supposed to come here today , and I 'm supposed to take my rightful place at the company . Prodigal son returns home and becomes the heir apparent . But I 'm not my father . I 'm not the man he was . I 'm not half the man he was . I never will be . So , please , stop asking me to be . Oliver sticks shovel into dirt and walks off stage . Thea watches in shock and Moira puts her head down . Diggle follows Oliver away .」
narration:CAMERAS CONTINUE CLICKING
 INT . LAW FIRM - DAY
 Laurel , Emily Nocenti , and Lawyer watch the news report .

Newscaster:「Martin Somers , the CEO of Starling Port , was arrested last night for the murder of Victor Nocenti . He is also being accused of accepting cash , including over $ 10 million in bribes . Lawyer turns off TV .」
Lawyer:「Well , we can pursue the civil suit if you want , but the D.A. now has no choice , with Mr. Somers ' confession , to prosecute him .」
Laurel:「He 's going to jail , Emily . For the rest of his life .」
Emily Nocenti:「Thank you so much for fighting for us .」
Laurel:「Well , thank you for being brave enough to let me . Emily Nocenti walks away and Quentin enters .」
Quentin:「Hey .」
Laurel:「I thought I did n't need police protection anymore .」
Quentin:「I thought I did n't need a reason to see my own daughter .」
Laurel:「You do n't . Hmm . You look tired .」
Quentin:「Yeah , I was filling out reports on the shootout at the port last night and getting grilled about how I let that archer get away .」
Laurel:「I have to admit , I 'm kind of glad he did . He brought down Martin Somers .」
Quentin:「He hurt a bunch of people doing it , okay ? He is no hero . He is an anarchist .」
Laurel:「Yeah , well , whoever he is , it seems like he 's trying to help .」
Quentin:「The city does n't need that kind of help , okay ? It 's like I always told you , you do n't need to go outside the law to find justice . Now I believe that . All right ? And I promise you , when I catch this guy , ( voiceover ) he 's gon na believe it , too .」
narration:INT . QUEEN MANSION - DAY
 Oliver sits at his desk with his father 's book . He crosses off " Martin Somers . "
 FLASHBACK
 Oliver carries his dad 's body over rocks .
 PANTING
 GROANS
 He lays his dad 's body on the ground and sees the book in his dad 's pocket . He opens the book to see blank pages , aside from a circular design on the inside of the front cover .
 END FLASHBACK
 EXT . BRIDGE - DAY
 A limo pulls up next to a silver car . Moira gets out of the car and into the limo .
Moira:「Well , you saw for yourself . My son knows nothing . Robert did n't tell him anything that could hurt us . And he has no idea that the yacht was sabotaged . Camera shows the other person holding a book with the same circular design .」
narration:EXT . QUEEN MANSION - DAY
 Oliver looking at gravestones with two workers behind him and Diggle standing by the car . Oliver kneels in front of his father 's stone with the book in hand .

Oliver Queen:「All that time on the island , plotting my return , I did n't realize how hard it would be . To reconnect with Mom , Thea , Laurel . Okay , I did n't ... I did n't know how painful it would be to keep my secrets . You asked me to save the city . To right your wrongs . I will . I swear . But to do that , I ca n't be the Oliver that everyone wants me to be , which means that sometimes ... To honor your wishes ... I need to dishonor your memory . I 'm sorry . Oliver stands and sighs , walking toward the car .Take it down . The workers walk toward the gravestones .」
Diggle:「Will you be going out tonight , sir ?」
Oliver Queen:「Definitely .」
narration:FLASHBACK
 Oliver picks up a rock and puts it on the grave he made for his father .
 ARROW THUDS
 A handmade arrow goes through Oliver 's right shoulder .
 SCREAMING
 GROANING LOUDLY
 Oliver looks around and sees someone in a green hood standing on the rocks by the water . The person puts another arrow on their bow and aims .
Oliver Queen:「No , no ...」
