FRANCE 1557:「Mary , Queen of Scots , has been hidden away at a convent for her safety since age 9 . Engaged since childhood to the future king of France , she awaits her return to the french court AT A CONVENT :」
narration:Mary and her fellow countrymen are seen playing an early version of football . Until they all gather around a table to eat together . Everyone is sitting , passing food around and chatting amongst themselves . For some reason , Mary focuses her attention on a nun sitting on the opposite end of the table . Suddenly , blood and a frothy substance start to drip from her mouth and ears , until she falls face - first into her plate , causing a young girl to scream and everyone else to panic . One of the nuns grabs Mary by the arm and leads her away from the table
NUN:「You must leave immediately . This was an assassination attempt . You were nearly poisoned .」
MARY:「By who ?」
NUN:「Someone with ties to the Protestant throne of England , no doubt . They 'll be found and dealt with .」
narration:Meanwhile , a group is heading toward the convent on horseback
MARY:「Poor Sister Helen ; I did n't know .」
NUN:「That she was your taster ? Every meal you 've eaten has been tasted for poison since you left your mother 's breast , Mary , you are the Queen of Scotland .」
narration:After gathering her things and preparing to leave , Mary is greeted one final time by the women who have been protecting her
GIRL ( whispering ):「Look at her . She is beautiful .」
narration:As she makes her way through the crowd , they part for her
MARY ( to the nun ):「I do n't know if I 'm ready .」
NUN ( trying to sooth her nerves ):「To leave here , or marry the future King of France ?」
MARY:「Both . I hoped I would get to go back to Scotland one last time .」
NUN:「Your friends from Scotland will be there . Girls you 've known your whole life . You 're safer in French Court . You 're nearly a woman , and Francis is nearly a man . It 's time .」
narration:Queen Mary and the sister hug one final time , while horse can be heard approaching them in the background
NUN:「You will we d young Francis , someday soon , for your faith , for your people , for Scotland . He will love you .」
MARY:「I 'm not sure that matters .」
NUN:「It does to you .」
narration:A little girl begins tugging on Mary 's overcoat . She is holdng a rosary in her hands
GIRL:「Mary」
MARY:「Rose .」
ROSE:「Be careful . There are ghosts there .」
MARY:「At the castle ?」
ROSE:「They say the halls are filled with them . Tortured souls ; a girl , whose face is a ruin . She hides it .」
MARY ( trying to reassure the girl ):「I was at French Court before , you know , when I was your age . I did n't see any ghosts .」

ROSE:「But what if they saw you ?」
narration:Mary seems a bit spooked by the sentiment , but before she can say anything else , she is interrupted by one of the men on horseback
GUARD:「Your Grace .」
narration:She takes the rosary and goes to enter the waiting carriage . She takes one last look around and gets in the carriage to ride away
 ROYAL HOUSE OF FRANCE :
 A dashing young man is seen running down the stairwell , tinkering with his outfit . As he lands downstairs , he is met by his illegitimate half brother ; Sebastian , or ' Bash ' for short
FRANCIS:「Sebastian .」
BASH:「Francis , they were looking for you everywhere . Tough to find you .」
FRANCIS:「I was riding .」
BASH:「Really ? Who ?」
narration:Francis chuckles at the insinuation and continues fumbling with his outfit . He turns around to let Bash help him get situated
FRANCIS:「So , Bash , how 's the mood ?」
BASH:「Father 's or the mood in general ? Tense to both -- Planning for your sister 's wedding .」
FRANCIS:「Is your mother in there ?」
BASH:「No , only royals and their attendants allowed , BUT , your mother is in fine form , God save you . I 'm off now that you 're here .」
narration:Bash slaps Francis on the arm and rushes off
FRANCIS ( mumbling to himself ):「Lucky b*st*rd .」
narration:Despite his attempts , Bash hears him anyway
 ELSEWHERE IN THE CASTLE :
 Women have gathered around by the dozens , watching as King Henry tries on a suit and models it for them
Queen Catherine:「Mary should be protected . Hidden .」

KING HENRY:「So you 've claimed .」
narration:A young girl is also trying on a beautiful wedding gown
KING HENRY:「You also claimed she needed to be kept at convent for her education , when we both know she simply irritated you .」
Queen Catherine:「Mary 's arrival now upstages our daughter 's wedding .」
KING HENRY:「It 's the perfect occasion to showcase the alliance with Scotland . Half the continent 's royalty will be feeding at our trough .」
narration:Francis walks by as the two continue to bicker , catching the attention of a pretty brunette
Queen Catherine:「There are those that say too many alliances make a king look weak . KING HENRY」
FRANCIS ( putting an end to their bckering ):「I 'm told I was needed . Or should I just come back on my wedding day ? You 've chosen my wife ; have you set the date , too ?」
KING HENRY:「Here 's the date」
FRANCIS:「Mary Stuart , you mean . I heard .」
KING HENRY:「You do n't sound very enthusiastic . You were playmates once .」
FRANCIS:「She had skinny legs , a missing front tooth and strong opinions .」

KING HENRY:「I 'm sure the adult tooth has come in . The opinions you can ignore .」
narration:Henry looks over at Catherine , asking for reassurance
KING HENRY:「Is n't that right , Catherine ?」
Queen Catherine:「Her ladies - in - waiting are on their way as well .Three titled , the other ridiculously rich .」
narration:Catherine looks over to Henry
Queen Catherine:「Just your type .」
KING HENRY:「At least your bride has a country and an army , should you need it .」
narration:Henry takes one more look at the two of them and leaves them be
QUEEN CATHERINE ( to Francis ):「I may not have been born with a crown , but this country relies on my money . ( Catherine scoffs at Henry 's aggressiveness ) Let him talk like a king . Your wedding wo n't happen until I say so .」
narration:Francis smiles at her warmly
QUEEN CATHERINE ( pressing her hand against his face ):「I 'm on your side . Always . FRANCIS」
narration:In a dirty , musky chamber , Nostradamus and Catherine have gathered around a plethora of different herbs . He presents her with something in a metal tin

QUEEN CATHERINE ( taking a whiff of it ):「That 's disgusting .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「Where she puts it , he wo n't smell it . Unless he 's a very good husband .」
narration:Nostradamus breaks out in a wide grin
Queen Catherine:「Imagine that .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「You do want Elisabeth to bear sons .」
Queen Catherine:「Oh , as soon as possible . Or what is a wife 's value ? But what about my son Francis ? What do your visions say about his future ? Tell me , Nostradamus , what have you seen ?」
NOSTRADAMUS:「I .. I .. I've had fleeting images , but as yet , their meaning is unclear . Perhaps if you were more specific about your concerns .」
Queen Catherine:「Well , will he love her ? Will she love him ? How do I control a daughter - in - law who 's a queen in her own right ?」
NOSTRADAMUS:「Is that what bothers you ? Her power ? Mm . Or the fact that she 's young and pretty ?」
QUEEN CATHERINE ( teasing him ):「I 've just had a vision . I see you , beheaded , at my command . Said with gratitude for the secrets we share .」

NOSTRADAMUS:「Be patient . Answers will come .」
( MEANWHILE:「Outside and inside the castle , people have gathered around , awaiting Mary 's arrivial . Horses can be heard , trumpets are playing )」
LADY:「There she comes .」
narration:The royal family all walk outside to greet her , including Francis , who urges Bash to come with him . Henry is joined by his mistress , Diane . Outside , two carriages pull up ; one with Mary and another with her ladies - in - waiting
AYLEE ( stepping out of the carriage ):「There 's Mary .」
narration:The carriage carrying Mary finally pulls up and comes to a stop . A gentleman offers her a hand getting out , she takes it and her ladies rush over to her . First , they bow to her and then they all hug
GIRLS ( said amongst laughter ):「Mary ! We missed you so much !」
MARY:「Oh , Kenna , Greer , Lola , I 'm so happy to see you .」
narration:She smiles at each of them
MARY:「Aylee , we 're all together again .」
narration:After greeting the girls , Mary looks over to see the royal family looking on
GREER ' ( trying to fix ' Mary 's hair ):「Oh , Mary , your hair . Did n't the nuns teach you anything ?」
narration:They all giggle
MARY ( looking over to see all of the trunks that are being unloaded ):「Oh , Greer , those ca n't all be clothes .」
GREER:「There 's jewelry and silver , too . I 'm making up in volume for what I lack in station , I suppose .」
AYLEE:「Here they come !」
narration:A trumpet blows one last time ; the royal family heads down the by - stander filled walkway
ANNOUNCER:「Your Highness」
MARY:「That 's King Henry , but is that Catherine ?」
KENNA:「No . They 're still waiting on her . That 's Diane de Portiers , the king 's mistress .」
GREER:「So the rumors are true ?」
LOLA:「Unlike her , you 'll have no trouble finding husbands here .」
KENNA:「We 'll certainly enjoy the hunt .」
KENNA ( to Lola ):「What about you ? Oh , do n't tell me . It 's about that boy from Aberdeen .」
LOLA:「Colin said he 'd wait for me .」
GREER:「Till when ? We might never be back on Scottish soil , not if it all works out and Mary reigns here .」
AYLEE:「What do you mean , " if ? "」
GREER:「Make no mistake , we 're here now to get our young queen in the game . Alliances can shift . Before they do , Mary needs to win the prince 's heart .」
narration:Bash begins walking toward Mary and the girls . Kenna rushes over to Mary
KENNA:「Is that Francis ? He 's gorgeous .」

MARY:「No , that 's not Francis . I know it is n't .」
KENNA:「Then that must be Sebastian , the king 's b*st*rd ; Diane 's son . I hear the king favors him .」
narration:Fanfare plays , as the Queen approaches them , bystanders bow to their knees
GUARD:「Her Majesty」
narration:Francis then walks to meet Mary
MARY ( smiling at Francis ):「I do n't believe it .」
FRANCIS ( bowing to Mary ):「Your Grace .」
MARY:「No , call me Mary , please .」
FRANCIS:「Francis .」
MARY ( nervously ):「The castle seems bigger . Is that possible ? And you , too , of course .」
narration:Mary 's ladies snicker at her from behind
FRANCIS:「Is that such a surprise ?」
MARY:「No . Especially since your legs were always longer than mine . You know , I hated that when we were young . I was always chasing after you , but , now , uh , now it suits you .」
narration:Francis makes a slight gesture toward Mary and they walk away together
QUEEN CATHERINE ( to Nostradamus ):「What is it ? You 've had a vision .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「It 's clear now . I saw your son 's future -- his union with Mary .」
Queen Catherine:「Well , say it .」

NOSTRADAMUS:「She will cost Francis his life .」
narration:Catherine slinks back quietly , unsure of what to say
 INSIDE THE CASTLE :
WOMAN ( to Mary 's ladies ):「You have returned to the court at your own queen 's bidding . As noble ladies , you must counsel her , prepare her , account for her . For the Princess Elisabeth 's wedding , as with any event , you must acquaint yourselves , and Mary , with all visiting royalty and dignitaries . Who amongst you is fluent in Italian ?」
AYLEE ( apprehensively ):「I suppose I am .」
WOMAN:「You will sit next to the Pope 's cousin . He has no teeth and speaks very quickly .」
narration:The girls erupt in laughter , while the woman rolls her eyes at their childishness
 LATER , UPSTAIRS :
 Later on that day , the girls sit around in front of a mirror , applying makeup and trying on dresses
KENNA:「Are these dresses from Paris ?」
AYLEE:「Yes , every one .」
LOLA:「Oh If Colin could see me , he 'd marry me in a second . I look of age now ; we all do .」
AYLEE:「You know what I 'd like to do ? Explore . We have n't been here since we were children . Surely the castle 's changed . Who 's with me ?」
KENNA:「I am !」
MARY:「Go . I 'll find you later . There 's something I want to see .」
narration:Mary climbs up a creaking staircase that goes all the way to the top of the castle . She recalls memories she shared with Francis when they were small children
YOUNG MARY ( whispering ):「Francis is a girl 's name .」
narration:laughter echos throughout the hallowed hallways . When she finally makes it to the top of the stairs , she sees various children 's toys , but a distant creak catches her attention . She follows the noise to a room where Francis is working
FRANCIS ( slightly startled ):「Mary .」
MARY:「Francis . Um , I did n't know you ..」
FRANCIS ( interrupting her ):「What are you doing here ?」
MARY:「I was exploring . These were my old rooms . Do n't you remember ?」
FRANCIS:「Not anymore . No one comes up here .」
MARY:「Except you . What is that ? ( looking at the array of different things that sit on a nearby table in the room ) Is all of this yours ?」
FRANCIS:「I - I make knives , and swords . At least , I 'm trying to learn .」
MARY:「To be a bladesmith ? Is that a requirement for future kings now ?」
FRANCIS:「When you say it like that , it sounds ridiculous , yes .」
MARY:「No , no , I think it 's fantastic .」
FRANCIS:「But did you make all these ? Why ? I ca n't help thinking that every man , even a king , should have some kind of skill .」

MARY:「Well , you 're going to be a great ruler someday . Is n't that enough ?」
FRANCIS:「I hope I will be , but I meant a real skill . One that I did n't inherit , was n't given to me and , and ca n't be taken away . My brother-- my half - brother , Bash-- he has so many . He wants to learn something , he does , he wants to go somewhere , he goes . With my father 's blessing . They do n't worry about him dying so much that they do n't let him live .」
MARY:「Because he 'll never be King . I can milk a goat and cut peat for the fire . The nuns , you know .」
FRANCIS ( half laughing ):「Impressive . I suppose if there was ever an uprising that sent my line into hiding , I could always get by as a blacksmith .」
MARY:「But I 'd save you . And we could go to Scotland and rule there .」
FRANCIS ( unsure of what to say ):「That 's , a ( clears throat ) , that 's a very kind offer . I hope I never have to take you up on it .」
narration:Francis heads back down to his chambers . When he enters the room , the brunette from earlier is waiting for him there
FRANCIS:「Natalia . Did anyone see you come in here ?」
NATALIA:「No . They never do . They never will . Nothing 's changed here .」
narration:Natalia inches her way across the room , toward Francis . When she 's within touching distance , she pulls her top down on her shoulders
NATALIA:「Nothing has to .」
narration:OUTSIDE THE CASTLE :
 Outside the castle , Mary sits by the water 's edge with her dog , inspecting various pebbles that she holds in her hand . Suddenly , her dog begins growling and barking at a figure that stands near the entrance to the woods
MARY ( unnerved by the loud snarling ):「Stirling , no ! Stirling ! ( trying to calm him ) Come on , boy ! Mary . BACK INSIDE THE CASTLE :」
narration:Mary knocks on Francis ' door inside the castle
FRANCIS:「Mary . What is it ?」
narration:Mary holds up some of the pebbles she found near the water
MARY:「Um , I brought you something , to decorate your swords with .」
FRANCIS:「Now 's not a good time . Next time , you should be announced . My page is there for a reason .」
MARY:「I do n't understand .」
FRANCIS:「You should n't be here .」
MARY:「Why do you sound so ... Are you alone ? Are you with someone ?」
FRANCIS:「If you are ever going to be the Queen of France , you need to understand something ; Kings do not answer to their wives .」

narration:Francis slams the door in Mary 's face and she leaves his chambers . Inside the room , Francis stands with his back against his door , realizing that he was rude
 BACK OUTSIDE :
 After Francis was rude to her , Mary goes back to the lake and throws the pebbles back into the water , while her dog continues to bark at an unseen figure in the woods . Suddenly , he darts off into the woods
MARY ( taking off after him ):「Stirling ; No , come back ! Stirling ! ( the barking continues ) Stirling ? Stirling , come back !」
narration:A group of men on horseback arrive back at the castle ; led by the King 's b*st*rd ; Sebastian
BASH ( to the men ):「Go on .」
MARY ( continuing to chase after him ):「Stirling , come back ! BASH」
narration:Bash jumps off from his horse and runs to meet Mary
MARY ( frantically ):「Stirling , come back !」
BASH:「Mary ! MARY ( reaching the region in which the woods begin )」
BASH ( stopping he from entering the woods ):「No , no , wait .」
narration:Mary continues trying to enter anyway , but Bash just becomes more forcable
BASH ( getting her full attention ):「Mary . Young girls - royals , queens - do not leave the castle alone .」
MARY:「But - my - my dog」
BASH:「Let him go . Do not go into those woods . Do you hear me ? !」
MARY:「Why not ? What 's in those woods ? Besides my dog , who I might 've caught if you had n't stopped me .」
BASH:「He 'll find his way back . There 's food and warmth . Who would n't want to be at the castle ? Except , perhaps , you . Rather be at the convent , would you ? Eating porridge and trudging through mud ?」
MARY ( defensively ):「I quite like the way mud feels underfoot .」
BASH:「Maybe you 'll be sent back to the nuns - For misbehaving .」
MARY:「You 're cheeky . BASH
 You should ask your brother .」
BASH:「Ask him what ?」
MARY:「Why he 's such a moody , arrogant ass .」
BASH:「We 're half - brothers , by the way . Nothing in common but our father , really .」
MARY:「Oh .」
BASH:「But I 'll mention your discontent to Francis .」
MARY:「Do n't bother .」
BASH:「And I 'll find your dog .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 INSIDE THE CASTLE :
 Lola , one of Mary 's ladies , is lying in a bathtub humming ; with another lady attending to her hair . Someone enters and takes the lady 's place , putting his hands on Lola 's shoulders
COLIN:「Warm enough ? LOLA ( shockngly )」
narration:Colin starts kissing her the moment she starts protestng
COLIN:「I 've been thinking of you from the moment you got on that boat . I borrowed money and left the next day .」

LOLA:「I want you to stay , but we 'll be found out . We need permission .」
narration:The pair then go and speak with Queen Catherine
QUEEN CATHERINE ( laughing ):「Oh What a grand , romantic gesture . And you say your queen , Mary , knows your young man ?」
LOLA:「Uh , she has n't met Colin , but she knows his people .」
Queen Catherine:「Oh ! Your father is a cousin of Mary 's father , James ?」
COLIN:「My father served him until the day King James died . His Grace was generous , he granted my father large holdings , but we 're no relation .」
Queen Catherine:「You come from former servants ? My , what a rise your people have made . I do love a success story . Stay and tell me all about it .」
narration:Both Colin and Lola break out in a wide grin
Queen Catherine:「Oh , Lola , you should go find Mary , keep her on task so we can all enjoy the wedding .」

narration:Lola gets up and bows to the queen , before leaving . The rest of the women in the room also leave , leaving Colin very confused and worried
 IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 Mary and Aylee go to enter the room , but just before the door opens , a shadowy figure makes its way from one corner of the room to the other
AYLEE:「So Bash just happened upon you . You do n't believe that . He has a terrible reputation with women , he knows no bounds .」
MARY:「Maybe it runs in the family .」
AYLEE:「Did something happen with Francis ?」
MARY:「No , no , nothing .」
narration:Aylee seems unconvinced
MARY:「Really , it 's fine , and we need to get ready for the wedding .」
AYLEE:「So go on . I 'll tell the servants you 're ready to be bathed and dressed .」
MARY:「Thank you .」
narration:As Aylee leaves , Mary begings taking off her earrings , before she notices the stones she threw back in the water are now lying on a mirror on her dresser
MARY:「Hello ? Is anyone here ?」
narration:A creaking is coming from across the room . It appears to originate behind a wardrobe closet in the corner of the room . Mary walks to it and puts her hand against the thin layer of frabic , a figure behind the cloth puts her hand up as well ; with their hands meeting
FEMALE VOICE ( with a raspy tone ):「Taste of love and sorrow , but do n't drink the wine . Do n't .」
MARY:「Who are you ?」
narration:Just like that , the woman is gone . She disappears into an interconnecting network of tunnels behind a trap door
 AT THE WEDDING :
 Outside the castle , fireworks are bursting in the sky . Inside , festive music playing , while people are standing around and watching the newly - married couple enjoy the wedding festivities . Meanwhile , Lola spots Colin nervously carrying two c'halices of wine .
MARY ( to a group of gentlemen ):「We 're very happy to be back at court .」
narration:Colin approaches Mary with one of the c'halices
COLIN:「Your Grace . Beautiful evening , is it not ?」
narration:Lola continues to watch Colin as he speaks with Mary , until Greer interrupts her
GREER:「Why are n't you with Colin ?」
narration:Both girls watch as Colin takes Mary 's hand and kisses it gently
GREER:「What 's he doing with Mary ?」
LOLA:「She 's his queen . He 's just paying his respects .」
narration:Colin presents Mary with one of the c'halices and proposes a toast
COLIN:「Let 's raise a glass」
OLDER MAN:「Hear , hear .」
narration:All of the people gathered around take a sip of the wine , but Mary , who recalls the warning given by the mysterious stranger . Instead of drinking , she gently lays the c'halice back down as Colin nervously walks off

FEMALE VOICE ( raspy ):「Do n't drink the wine .」
MARY ( seeing Lola and Greer starting attentively ):「Oh , Lola , no . MARY ( trying to pacify her friend )」
MARY:「I wo n't be alone .」
narration:Mary and Aylee both walk toward Greer and Lola . Kenna joins them
MARY:「Lola , come dance with me . Take off you shoes . Come on . Dance with me .」
narration:The girls liven up to the idea and begin removing their shoes
MARY:「Take off you shoes .」
narration:The girls hold hands and dance wildly , while the King - and his mistress - looks on . The girls laugh wildly , but the Queen looks unamused
QUEEN CATHERINE ( sarcastically ):「We 're overrun by Scots .」
( The rest of the onlookers clap and laugh along . Some of them even join them in dancing . Meanwhile:「Bash and Mary 's eyes meet . Francis notices this and looks annoyed , until feathers begin to fall from the ceiling , reminding Mary of a time when she and Francis jumped on a bed when they were children , with feathers scattering about the room . Then , their eyes meet until the room starts to clear out )」
LOLA:「Look Elisabeth and Philip are leaving .」
KENNA:「It 's time for the consummation ; the ritual ; the ceremony ; the mystery . Are n't you curious ?」
narration:Kenna grabs Mary 's hand and pulls her away . The rest of the girls follow them into a cramped , dark room shrouded in secrey by a curtain
AYLEE:「You mean , they actually watch them , you know ..」
GREER:「It 's a tradition for royals .」
AYLEE:「Well , we are not allowed .」
KENNA ( to Mary ):「Do n't you want to know what you 're in for someday ? With your Francis ?」
narration:Kenna pulls back a curtain , revealing the newlyweds , a bed and a group of people in a candle - lit room .
BISHOP:「Pax vobis . In nomini patri et fili et spiritus sancti . Amen .」
narration:A lady is attending to the nervous bride ; helping remove her clothing . She looks like she 's about to pass out when her husband comes in
HUSBAND ( he grabs her face and sheilds her eyes from the rest of the onlookers , whispering ):「We 're the only ones that matter here .」
narration:They begin to kiss softly and inch their way to a bed , where they continue kissing and moaning . The girls watch as the consumation unfolds
AYLEE ( gasping quietly ):「Let 's go .」
narration:The girls apprehensively leave the room . After they are back in the main hallway , where anyone could see them , they split up
MARY:「Go , before anyone sees us .」

narration:Kenna heads to a quiet , dark portion of the castle , with several men watching intently as she strolls by . When she 's alone , she lifts up her dress to pleasure herself , but before she can finish , someone comes from behind , pressing their hand against her private parts . She turns around to see that it 's the king
KENNA:「Your grace」
KING HENRY:「May I ?」
narration:The king puts his hand under her dress and they begin kissing
 BACK IN THE BALLROOM :
 Mary goes looking for Francis and she finds him downstairs in the main ballroom with two other men . He sees her and goes to talk with her , while his lover looks on
FRANCIS:「Excuse me .」
FRANCIS ( approaching Mary ):「I 've been wanting to talk to you . MARY ( interrupting Francis and talking over him )」
FRANCIS:「When you came to my room , I - I should n't have said what I did . There were other ways of handling this .」
MARY ( offended ):「Handling what ? Me ? You do realize that we 're going to be married someday , do n't you ?」
FRANCIS:「Believe me , I know . MARY
 It 's not about that .」
MARY:「Do n't you think that we owe it to each other , to our families , to our countries , to give it a chance ?」
FRANCIS:「It 's not that simple .」
MARY:「Not that simple ? ! What 's not simple ? ! ( Mary raises her voice ) We 've been engaged since we were six -- It 's all arranged . How awful must you find me --」
FRANCIS:「It 's not you . You , You 're beautiful , and clever and unpredictable , but it does n't matter . What matters is what 's right for my country . France is not as strong as you might think , or care ; which maybe you do n't , but I do . I 'm going to be king someday , responsible for my people . And right now , an alliance with Scotland could destroy France .」
MARY:「You do n't want to marry me . You do n't want this at all .」
FRANCIS:「Things could change .」
MARY:「Well , it is n't your decision , it 's your father 's .」
FRANCIS:「You do n't see him pushing a wedding either , do you ? All engagements really do is hold alliances . He 's betting we might need Scotland , I 'm betting we 'll find more support elsewhere . I know it 's not what you want to hear ...」
MARY:「But you wo n't love me . You wo n't let yourself .」
FRANCIS:「Love is irrelevant to people like us . We , who are so privileged in so many ways , with that . All I 'm asking you to do is wait , see how things go .」
MARY:「See how things go for France . I guess it is simple after all . But you are n't not the only one with a country to think of .」

narration:Mary storms off and retreats to her chambers for sleep . She is awoken by Colin , who is undressing himself . When Mary wakes , she screams , but Colin puts his hand over her mouth to stifle her screams
COLIN:「Your grace , please , your grace !」
narration:Mary manages to push Colin off of her , right before the guards storm in and apprehend him
COLIN ( screaming ):「Please , Your Grace , forgive me !」
narration:THE NEXT MORNING :
 Mary 's ladies are gathered around with Lola , speaking of the previous events of the evening
AYLEE:「How could this happen ? Where were the guards ? Why did n't they stop him ?」
GREER:「I hope Mary did if they did n't . They 'll question her virtue . If she 's not a virgin , then she 'll never be the queen of France , and our chances at court will be over .」
LOLA:「You do n't know what happened , any of you .
 I 've spoken to him . He 's being held . I bribed a guard . Colin 's a good man ; a boy still .」
MARY:「What did he say ? What possible defense could he have given you ?」
LOLA:「He said he was forced . He would n't say by whom . He could n't , he was so afraid . But he said there are people , powerful people , behind this , and he had no choice .」
KENNA:「What people ?」
LOLA:「Here , in the castle . He would n't risk saying more .」
AYLEE:「Do you believe him , Mary ?」
MARY:「He looked so surprised that I would fight back . That I would even wake .」
KENNA:「That you 'd wake ? He attacked you .」
MARY ( remembering the mysterious figure that warned her ):「The wine . I was told not to drink the wine . I was warned . LOLA」
MARY:「It does n't matter now . I believe you . I believe Colin . LOLA」
Queen Catherine:「Speak , to your assailant ? Why ?」

MARY:「Because he is the love of my dear friend . And if there was any misunderstanding , if I sent the wrong message in my joy at the wedding ...」
Queen Catherine:「Take care , child . If anyone knew you were even asking this ...」
KING HENRY ( interrupting the Queen ):「Catherine , she needs to know .」
narration:QUEEN
CATHERINE:「Gossip poisons too . It can poison a young queen 's reputation , her heirs ' right to the throne ; an entire kingdom .」
KING HENRY:「You may have behaved foolishly , but you are not responsible for your countryman 's actions . MARY」
narration:It is revealed that Colin is being locked up and tortured
KING HENRY:「Witnesses have come forward . The boy played a role in an English plot to destroy your engagement and Scotland 's alliance with France .」
MARY:「An English plot , you 're sure ?」
Queen Catherine:「You must know if he 'd been successful in his assault , you 'd be unfit to marry our son ; to marry any royal . My dear , this was not an act of passion . It was treason .」
KING HENRY:「But it 's all settled now .」
narration:In the prison chambers , Colin is beheaded

KING HENRY:「Colin 's been executed .」
MARY:「What ?」
KING HENRY:「He was beheaded this morning .」
narration:BACK IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
MARY ( to her ladies ):「There was nothing I could do . I was too late . LOLA ( with tears streaming down her face )」
MARY:「They said he was involved in an English plot . I do n't know who to believe or to trust . I , I am so sorry , Lola .」
LOLA:「You 're the reason he 's dead . Anyone who 's close to you lives in constant danger . We 're disposable , all of us .」
MARY:「No , you 're not . I need you . You 're my friends .」
LOLA:「Kenna 's my friend . Greer and Aylee are my friends . You are my queen , and we 're your subjects . We 're here in service to you , whatever that means , whatever it costs us .」
MARY:「I will protect you .」
LOLA:「You ca n't even protect yourself .」
MARY:「I 'll do better . I promise .」
narration:Lola sits back down and starts crying heavily . All of the girls comfort her , while Mary just exits the room for some time to herself . Before she can break down , she sees that Bash has her dog on a leash
MARY:「Stirling ! You found him .」
narration:She bends down and hugs her dog tightly
MARY:「Oh , Stirling . What did I do ? ( to Bash ) I 'm sorry . It 's just been so hard .」
BASH:「I know . MARY
 You 're not alone here .」
MARY:「I have my friends .」
BASH:「I am not talking about your friends .」
narration:Bash sees his mother staring at him from afar
BASH ( his tone changing ):「I meant I want you to be well , Your Grace .」
MARY:「Thank you , Sebastian . Truly .」
narration:Mary goes to leave , as Dianne comes to talk to her son
BASH:「Mother .」
DIANNE:「Where did you find the dog ? BASH
 How close did you get ? Take care , my brave son , or you will bleed for a girl who will never be yours .」
narration:Outside , Mary is alone , overlooking the castle when Francis confronts her
FRANCIS ( sighs ):「You defended a boy they found in your bed ? What was he doing there ? You can tell me . I think I know already .」
MARY:「You think I was with him to get back at you ?」
FRANCIS:「I think you 're impulsive and prideful .」
MARY:「He 's dead . Leave it be , I beg of you .」
FRANCIS:「You ca n't behave like this . Not at court . Ca n't you see what 's at stake here ?」

MARY:「Because we 're engaged ? But you have no intention of marrying me . What if I told them that ? Then this would be over .」
FRANCIS:「You would n't do that because it 's not true ; I - I might marry you .」
MARY:「Someday , maybe , if .」
FRANCIS:「You said that you had a country to think about . Were you thinking about Scotland during any of this ?」
MARY:「I was thinking about myself , my friends , my safety ;」
FRANCIS:「You could have ruined your reputation so that I could n't marry you , even if things go the way we want them to .」
MARY:「" The way we want them to ? " And how would " we " want things to go ? If you were n't the future king of France , and I was just a girl , not the queen of anything , would you want this ?」
narration:Francis and Mary 's faces inch closer together , before they are almost kissing , until Francis pulls away
FRANCIS:「I ca n't do this . I wo n't .」
narration:Queen Catherine had been watching the scene unfold from her window . She goes to confront Nostradamus over the failed plot
Queen Catherine:「You said the potion would make her sleep like the dead . One glass of wine , and she 'd wake with her virtue destroyed , this engagement over .」

NOSTRADAMUS:「There was nothing wrong with my potion . It was the delivery of it that failed .」
Queen Catherine:「That stupid Scottish boy .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「A stupid , dead boy . All to protect his family -- from you .」
Queen Catherine:「I had no choice . The boy would 've implicated me , and you . Have your visions altered ?」

narration:[PREVIOUSLY_ON]
Nostradamus:「I saw your son 's future . His union with Mary , she will cost Francis his life .」
Mary Sibley:「We were engaged since we were six .」
Francis:「An alliance with Scotland could destroy France .」
Mary Sibley:「You do n't want to marry me .」
Queen Catherine:「You said the potion would make her seem like the dead , on glass of wine and she would wake up with her virtues destroyed .」
Mary Sibley:「Colin , No」
Lola:「He said he was forced .」
Mary Sibley:「Colin is my subject and i demand to speak with him .」
Henry:「Colin 's been exucuted . He was beheaded this morning .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 ACT 1 , SCENE 1 - IN THE DUNGEONS :
 In the dungeon , Colin , who was said to be dead , is seen being tortured by one of the King and Queen 's men
 Guard You 're done for now , boy . Do n't get too comfortable .
 The guard slinks away into the night . As soon as he 's out of the picture , a dark figure scurries down the corridor
Clarissa:「( trying to bring Colin to attention )」

narration:She removes the binds from his hands and tells him to leave
Clarissa:「Go . Go .」
narration:She reaches for the hot iron and uses it on Colin and he screams in pain , but finally gets a move on .
COLIN:「Who are you ? ( yelling ) Why did you free me ?」
narration:Clarissa continues to run out of the dungeon , never once turning around to look back
 ACT 1 , SCENE 2 - IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 As the morning light sweeps into a window in the castle , Mary looms over a sleeping Lola , pushing the covers back over her chest . Suddenly , there is a knock on the door
SARAH , THE SERVANT:「Lady Kenna , Lady Aylee and Greer of Kinross , Your Grace .」
narration:Mary 's other three ladies all follow close behind
Mary Sibley:「Thank you , Sarah .」
Kenna:「You slept there while Lola slept in your bed ?」
Mary Sibley:「We were talking about what happened to Colin . She fell asleep crying . I feel for her .... And for Colin .」
narration:The girls exit the room as to not wake Lola up from her sleep , but they continue chatting in hushed tones in the castle 's corridor
Mary Sibley:「The French King and Queen said Colin 's attack on me was an English plot , but Colin told Lola it was someone here , highly placed at French court . All I know is it had to be someone opposed to Scotland 's alliance with France ; my engagement to Francis .」
narration:Mary lowers her voice further , while all the girls eat breakfast
Mary Sibley:「England wants my country and my crown . I need the alliance with France to protect Scotland from the English , and I need time before there 's any chance of Francis marrying me . I wo n't have time if I do n't figure out who 's against me .」
narration:ACT 1 , SCENE 3 - IN THE THRONE ROOM :
 All of court has gathered in the throne room . On this day , a group of foreigners has gathered while the King and Queen decide who they shall bethrothed the younger Prince to
Queen Catherine:「Let 's agree it 's a brilliant match . Madeleine 's French , so there 's no question of her family 's loyalty ... Very wealthy .」

King Henry:「But not royal , so they 're hungry for power .」
Queen Catherine:「They 'll pay for it .」
narration:The King 's concern lifts at the thought
King Henry:「It 's only right to accept the support of one 's loyal subjects .」
Queen Catherine ( to her son ):「And she has a giraffe .」
narration:The young prince finally smiles
Queen Catherine:「Well , Madeleine 's widely traveled . She 's come from far away ... by ship .」
Prince Charles:「Do I get a giraffe , too ?」
Queen Catherine:「The moment she 's your bride .」
narration:As Catherine continues to put her child at ease , Henry makes preparations
King Henry:「Francis , to show our respect , I want you to accompany your little brother to the landing .」
Prince Charles:「Can Bash come as well ?」
Queen Catherine ( annoyed ):「Charlie ... You know that Bash is n't really your brother . He 's just your father 's son .」
narration:Francis and Sebastian both look at each other from across the room and smile faintly
Queen Catherine:「His presence is disrespectful .」
King Henry:「The girl 's parents were enjoying Morocco , so they sent her on alone .」

Queen Catherine:「Barely . She was more afraid of meeting her future husband than of pirates . Well , that 's to be expected at age seven . She 'll get in line . We all do .」
Mary Sibley:「Perhaps I can go with Francis ? I came here , too , when I was a child . Perhaps I can reassure her ?」
King Henry:「It 's several hours ' journey .」
Mary Sibley:「Then we 'll take food and treats . I do n't mind , really .」
Queen Catherine:「On second thought , why do n't we greet the girl here ? We do n't know ... the journey might not be safe .」
King Henry:「They 'll stay on the King 's road . A dozen well - armed guards will keep any bandits away .」
narration:With the matter settled , Henry takes off to set up the trip up
King Henry ( to the guards ):「Prepare a carriage for Mary , Queen of Scotland .」
narration:ACT 1 , SCENE 4 - ON THE KING 'S ROAD :
 A convoy of guards on horseback and carriages carry Mary , Francis and Prince Charles to meet Madeleine . As Mary rests her eyes , Prince Charles plays with a puzzle book across from Francis
Prince Charles:「She even smells nice .」
Francis:「I know .」

narration:Francis looks out of the carriage and sees that they 've arrived at their destination . He hops off , leaving Mary with Prince Charles , who seems utterly disinterested
Prince Charles:「Can I finish my puzzle ?」
narration:Francis peeks back in
Francis:「We 'll come for you once the girl 's boat has come ashore .」
narration:Mary and Francis stand over the shore , looking as about a dozen small boats approach the shoreline
Francis:「There are too many boats .」
narration:Francis notices that the larger boat has a huge , white English flag as a banner
Francis:「That 's not a French ship . Those are English .」
Mary Sibley:「Is that a warship ?」
Francis:「Yes .」
narration:Francis , fearing the worst , alerts the guards
Francis:「Guards !」
Mary Sibley:「What are they doing here ?」
Francis:「I do n't know . I think it 's a hostile landing .」
Mary Sibley:「But England and France are at peace . Have they come for me ?」
Francis:「Get Mary out of here . Hide her .」
narration:The men are now on the shoreline and they have started walking up the hill toward the group . One of the guards prepares a horse for riding
Francis:「Mary , can you ride ?」
Mary Sibley:「Yes .」
Francis ( to the guard ):「Get my brother out of here , someplace safe .」
narration:The French guards mount their bows with arrows directed toward the approaching men
Francis:「Mary , now .」
narration:Before Mary and Charles are wisked away , Bash arrives on horseback
Bash:「No ! Wait ! Do n't shoot ! Stand down !」
Francis:「There 's an English warship .」
Bash:「The English come in peace . The French ship took on water it was in distress . The English were nearby and gave rescue .」
Mary Sibley:「How do you know this ?」
Bash:「They sent an emissary on ahead to the castle . He 's being held . If they 're lying , they 'll have his head .」
narration:Bash sighs when they finally put down their weapons . Several minutes later , the group arrive , including the prince 's future wife . She takes a few steps forward , but Charles is too shy to meet her
Francis:「Go and introduce yourself .」
narration:Prince Charles shakes his head " no " and refuses to step forward . So Mary walks toward her and breaks the ice
Mary Sibley:「Hello , Madeleine . I 'm Mary . I know you 've had a very long journey , but you 're safe now . And you are very welcome here .」
narration:She extends her hair to Madeleine , who eventually takes it and walks toward the Prince
Mary ( quietly whispering ):「Go on now .」

narration:After a moment , Madeleine bows , then Charles does as well . He bends down and picks a small flower , giving it to her and making her smile
 ACT 1 , SCENE 5 - AT THE WELCOMING PARTY :
 After finally introducing himself , Prince Charles and Madeleine play together at a party held at the castle . All around them , people are dancing , chatting and feasting on various types of food .
KING HENRY ( to Queen Catherine quietly ):「We 've sent tents , cots and food to the English fighters at the shore . And there 's Simon , the English envoy . I 've put him up in a guest suite while he 's at court , along with the captain of the ship and some of his officers .」
Queen Catherine:「There 's plenty of English to go around . Some of England 's finest warriors that just happened to be aboard that ship . Are n't you the kind host ?」
King Henry:「Treat them as friends until they prove themselves foes . They 'll be gone in a few days , replenished and on their way .」
narration:King Henry heads off , with Nostradamus sneaking behind Catherine
Nostradamus:「I would think the English would be among your favorite guests .」

Queen Catherine:「Because they hate Mary ? Well , if only their aggression were limited to Scotland . But they want France , too . They want everything ...」
Nostradamus:「... Thus the alliance with Scotland . The one you tried to destroy by blackmailing a boy into taking Mary 's virtue by force .」
Queen Catherine:「Well , if it had worked , Francis might evade the fate you predict . How do I tell my son you see his death ? That his union with Mary will be the cause ?」
Nostradamus:「Francis does n't believe in prophecies . He 'd ignore it .」
Queen Catherine:「I trust your visions and your counsel . So let us keep our secrets and let them rest in peace with the Scottish boy who carried them out .」
narration:Meanwhile , Simon approaches Mary from the other side of the room
Mary Sibley:「You 're English , Lord Westbrook , but you say that you did not come with the warship ? You reside in France ?」
Simon:「I have a home in Paris , but I often stay at court . Call me Simon , please . So we can be friendly and frank with one another . Not like the French who simply say what you want to hear . How is your engagement going ?」
Mary Sibley:「Quite well . We 're very happy .」

Simon:「Then why have n't you set a date ? Charles and Madeleine are only seven , but they 'll be we d on her 14th birthday . France 's commitment to Scotland is hollow . They 're playing both sides . If you were threatened , would they really come - to your defense ?」
Mary Sibley:「I believe that is the very definition of an alliance . But , of course , you knew that .」
Simon:「I know this from one look at you . You 're of age . You should be married .」
Mary Sibley:「Are you proposing , or are you trying to scare me ?」
Simon:「Pack your pretty friends and hopes of salvation and go back to Scotland .」
Mary Sibley:「And exactly how long before England attacks in full force if I do that ? I 'm not going anywhere .」
Simon:「Did n't the nuns raise a brave girl . Sent to them for your protection , as I recall . How was the porridge at convent ? We thought it needed a little seasoning . A little something to make the flavor of our intentions clear .」
narration:Mary remembers her last day at the convent , when one of the nuns died right before her eyes
Mary ( clearly disgusted ):「Y ...」
narration:Just before she is about to verbally attack him , Francis comes up and tries to calm her down before she makes a public spectacle of herself
Francis:「Darling , you 're missing the game . Antoine 's had seven cups of wine . Every time he hiccups or burps , we must have one ourselves .」
narration:Finally , Francis acknowledges Simon nonchalantly
Francis:「Simon , right ? Back at court ?」
Simon:「And very pleased to be here .」
Francis:「I have another game in mind for you .」
narration:Francis drags Mary away from Simon , but not before forcing him to hold his chalice
Mary Sibley:「What are you doing ?」
narration:Francis has Mary pinned to a wall , but she is clearly upset
Francis:「Do n't move . Do n't push me away . You 're shaking . You ca n't show them you 're scared .」
Mary Sibley:「He threatened me here at French court . He wanted me to know that they tried to poison me at the convent .」
Francis:「He 's heard things about my reluctance to marry you .」
Mary Sibley:「Then they 're aware that I do n't have your country 's protection here .」
Francis:「You do .」
narration:Mary remains unconvinced
Francis ( quietly ):「You do .」
Mary Sibley:「There are dozens of English here , hundreds more camped on the coastline .」
Francis:「I 'm at your side . We 'll prove to them our union is strong .」
Mary Sibley:「But it is n't .」
Francis:「Well , they 'll think it is before their visit is over .」

narration:Francis holds out his hand , but Mary does n't take it . While looking around , she sees that all eyes - including the Queen and Nostradamus - are on her
Francis:「Can you do this ?」
Mary Sibley:「Absolutely . Can you ?」
narration:He nods and she finally takes his hand , before they head for the dance floor . Meanwhile , a guard comes up to Nostradamus and whispers something unsetting in his ear . Catherine picks up on this and she looks concerned
 ACT 1 , SCENE 6 - BACK TO THE DUNGEONS :
 After leaving the festivities , Nostradamus leads the Queen down to the dungeons , where he carefully explains what happened earlier that morning
Nostradamus:「As is the custom the door of the prisoner scheduled to be executed was marked with an " X.」
narration:Catherine holds a handkerchief over her nose to hide the rancid smell , as Nostradamus shows her the door marked with the red X
Queen Catherine:「Yes . Go on , go on .」
Nostradamus:「In another cell - a second boy , a thief - was being detained and punished .」
Queen Catherine:「Tortured , you mean .」

narration:They both walk up to the table on which Colin was chained to earlier , seeing another young boy 's body and decapitated head
Queen Catherine:「Who is this ?」
Nostradamus:「The boy whose cell was mistakenly marked .」
narration:Nostradamus looks down at his feet and chooses his words carefully
Nostradamus:「It was Colin who was tortured and escaped .」
Queen Catherine:「They beheaded the wrong boy and let him go ?」
Nostradamus:「I said he escaped ... He had help . Someone released him from his bonds .」
Queen Catherine:「No . Colin knows what we 've done . If he tells Mary , she could destroy us .」
Nostradamus:「Especially if your husband - the King - believes his story .」
Queen Catherine:「We have to find Colin . Find him and kill him .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 ACT 2 , SCENE 1 - IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 After learning Colin has escaped , Catherine is already plotting to make sure the truth would remain buried , but covering her bases just in case . She and the King have gone up to Mary 's chambers , where she and her ladies are caught up
Mary Sibley:「Colin 's alive ?」

King Henry:「Alive and escaped , I 'm afraid .」
narration:A look of relief washes over Lola 's face
Queen Catherine:「He had help .」
Mary Sibley:「Who ?」
King Henry:「Perhaps the English ?」
Mary ( unable to formulate a coherent sentence ):「But - t - t the attack ... the execution ... it all took place before they arrived .」
Queen Catherine:「They 're always here , my dear . Spies and treachery are constant in our world , but you have our protection . The guards are out looking for Colin , and he will be found .」
narration:Catherine changes the subject
Queen Catherine:「There 's a picnic this afternoon for Madeleine and Charles . The perimeter will be guarded .」
Mary Sibley:「Perhaps this is a mixed blessing ... And I 'll have a chance to speak with Colin once he 's found ; to learn how deep the plot against my person runs .. ( to Catherine ) You said yourself , Colin was a mere pawn .」
Queen Catherine:「The informants who pointed at the English fled , fearing retribution .」
King Henry ( curiously ):「Have they ?」
Queen Catherine:「Mhhmm」

Mary Sibley:「All I ask of you is that you bring him back alive . I need answers , and you did regret that he was executed so quickly , not knowing my request .」
narration:Catherine makes it clear that this is n't going to happen
Queen Catherine:「Colin is a dangerous fugitive . I can not -- we can not possibly guarantee that he - e ( stumbling with her words ) wo n't attack the guards and be harmed ... or killed .」
King Henry:「We can promise to try .」
narration:ACT 2 , SCENE 2 - IN A CORRIDOR :
 After leaving Mary 's chambers , the King speaks to the Queen privately
King Henry:「I heard you were the first to learn of Colin 's escape . You were seen last night in the dungeon with Nostradamus .」
Queen Catherine:「Yes . I sent out the guards right away .」
King Henry:「... But you did n't tell me .」
Queen Catherine:「I would n't want to disturb you in your mistress 's bed .」
King Henry:「Diane 's at the country house . So , by all means , keep me informed ... Day or night . Because I want to know whatever that boy has to say .」
Queen Catherine:「Look at all the guards . As if Colin would ever willingly return .」

narration:ACT 2 , SCENE 3 - IN THE COURTYARD :
 Outside of the castle , all of the people at court have ventured out into the beautifully - decorated courtyard , with dozens of children running around and playing games
Lola ( noticing how many guards the King and Queen have positioned around the courtyard ):「Look at all the guards . As if Colin would ever willingly return ...」
narration:One of the games entails blindfolding Prince Charles , having a number of girls call his name and have him identify Madeleine from the rest of them
Girls:「Charles ! ... Charles ! ... Charles !」
Madeleine ( very softly ):「Charles ..」
Kenna ( talking over the Children ):「How is Charles supposed to recognize the voice of his true love if she 's so quiet ? - Charles .」
Madeleine ( louder and less soft ):「Charles !」
narration:The King and Queen pass through the courtyard together , stopping when a beautiful lady catches his eye to plant a kiss on her hand
Woman:「Your Majesty .」
Kenna:「Who 's the King talking to ?」
Greer:「Anyone he likes , since he has no use for the Queen , and his mistress , Diane , is away .」
narration:Henry glances back at Kenna and smiles
Mary ( to Francis ):「Do you remember this game ?」
Madeleine:「Charles !」
Francis:「Yes . And she 's getting irritated with him .」
Madeleine:「Charles ! !」
Mary Sibley:「He 's not listening . He 's distracted by this one and that .」
Francis:「She 's impatient . Like somebody else I know ... You always were . Never finished a game ... never sat through a story .」
narration:Mary looks back at Francis with a myraid of emotions flooding her face
Francis:「What is it ?」
Mary Sibley:「I wish I could be patient . My situation is n't easy .」
Francis:「I know that . You must feel misled .」
Mary Sibley:「I feel endangered . The boy who attacked me , Colin ; He told Lola he was forced by someone in the castle .」
Francis:「You mean someone French ?」
Mary Sibley:「Highly placed , with the power to threaten him and order him executed .」
Francis:「Those orders came from my parents .」
Mary Sibley:「When I spoke to your parents , even your father seemed suspicious .」
Francis:「And my mother ?」
narration:Francis waits for an answer that never comes
Francis ( very quietly ):「Are you accusing her of something ?」
Mary Sibley:「No ... I do n't know . I just want to be sure that Colin is returned alive and your parents said he would be .」
Francis:「Then he will be , or they 'll make every effort .」
Mary Sibley:「Can you be sure of that ?」
Francis:「You have the word of the King and Queen of France .」

Mary Sibley:「I had their word that we would be married . I 'm not sure words mean anything here .」
narration:Francis angrily storms off , revealing that Simon has been watching them intently from across the courtyard . Meanwhile , Prince Charles remains blindfolded , with many young girls calling out his name
Girl 1:「Charles .」
Girl 2:「Charles .」
Girl 3:「Charles .」
Girl 4:「Charles .」
Girl 5:「Charles .」
Girl 6:「Charles .」
narration:Prince Charles keep spinning around , unable to identify Madeleine 's voice from the crowd
Madeleine:「Charles !」
narration:Finally fed up , she rips the blindfold from his face
 ELSEWHERE IN THE COURT - YARD :
 Mary meets with Sebastian privately
Bash:「I 'm not sure who you fear the English or the French court .」
Mary Sibley:「The English have threatened me for years , but Colin is the only one who knows who at French court , wants me gone .」
Bash:「And you think the word of an accused traitor will matter ?」
Mary Sibley:「If the right people believe him - and I think they might - then yes .」
Bash:「All right , I 'll go . Best way out of the dungeon is the South keep . Guards will have a head start , but they are not hunters , and they fear the woods .」
Mary Sibley:「Why ?」
Bash:「There is much to fear . Dark and dangerous times , Your Grace , but your presence brings light .」
narration:This makes Mary smile
 ACT 2 , SCENE 4 - AT THE ENTRANCE TO THE TUNNELS :
 After leaving the party held at the courtyard , little Charles hoovers against a stone structure near the castle , whispering to someone lingering in the shadows
Prince Charles:「I know . I did n't tell anyone ... Do n't worry .」
narration:Mary goes looking for Charles . After she spots him , so goes to see whom he 's speaking to
Mary Sibley:「Charles , Madeleine feels like you 're ignoring her . Who are you talking to ?」
Prince Charles:「No one .」
Mary Sibley:「Is that quite so ?」
Prince Charles:「All right , I was talking to my friend , But she wants me to play with her , too . She gets jealous . She says that when I 'm older , I wo n't even remember her .」
narration:Mary starts walking toward the entrance
Prince Charles:「Do n't go in there . She decides when you see her .」
Mary Sibley:「Well , that does n't sound very friendly ...」
Prince Charles:「But she knows things . Because she goes where she wants , and she sees everything , and she knows people 's secrets .」
narration:Suddenly , it strikes Mary that this girl might be the same one who warned her of the rape plot
Mary Sibley:「This friend , who likes to hide ... I think she visited me once .」

Prince Charles:「You 're lucky , then . She does n't like people . Most of the time , she does n't really speak , but I bribe her with things she likes , or play guessing games with her .. to learn things .」
Mary Sibley:「This friend does she have a name ?」
Prince Charles:「Clarissa , but do n't say I told you .」
narration:Mary turns again to enter the tunnels , this time venturing inside
Prince Charles:「Please do n't go in there .」
Mary Sibley:「Clarissa ?」
narration:Once inside the enterance , Clarissa is nowhere to be found , but Mary finds a small round stone laying on the ground . She picks it up and goes back outside , seeing that no one is around her any longer , including Charles
 ACT 2 , SCENE 5 - IN MARY 'S CHAMBERs :
 When arriving back into her room following the party , Mary finds a girl wearing one of her dresses
Mary Sibley:「I 'm - I 'm sorry ... I do n't know you .」
narration:The girl 's face turns white
Mary Sibley:「Is that my dress ?」
Girl:「Your Grace , forgive me ... It 's so beautiful . The tailor gave it to me to return , and I - I thought .. I should never ...」
narration:Suddenly the girl starts clutching at her arms
Girl:「My skin is on fire . My skin is on fire !」
Mary Sibley:「Is something wrong ?」
Girl:「No ! Stay back ! It 's poisoned . My skin is burning . It 's burning !」
narration:She falls to the ground , which sends Mary on a desperate mission for help
Mary ( screaming and running down the corridors ):「Guards , someone , help me ! Somebody help me , please ! Guards !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 ACT 3 , SCENE 1 - BACK IN THE CHAMBERS :
 Returning with Francis and several men , Mary sees that the girl is no longer there in her chambers
Mary Sibley:「She was right there on the floor . She was dying . Where - where .. could she have gone ?」
Francis:「They took the evidence ... Whoever did this failed in their attempt on you .」
narration:Francis tries to comfort her by holding her hand
Francis ( to one of the guards ):「Go ! Now ! An assassin with a dying girl could not have gone far .」
Francis:「Go ! Go !」
narration:All of them take off after the girl , leaving Mary and Francis alone
Mary ( hysterically ):「She was right there ! How could anyone have escaped with her ?」
narration:Suddenly , an idea dawns on Mary
Mary Sibley:「The passageway ...」
narration:She takes off toward it , with Francis following her behind closely
Mary Sibley:「I do n't know how far it goes , or where , but ...」
narration:Mary opens up a small door and they look into the darkness

Mary Sibley:「Could they have gone through here ?」
Francis:「Shh ...」
narration:He pauses for a moment , listening for voices or footprints
Francis:「No ... No , they 'd echo . We 'd hear them . These passages are all stone , nothing in them ... but I did n't know one connected to this room .」
Mary Sibley:「You know about them ?」
Francis:「This castle 's been built over centuries . The passageways ... they connect the older parts to the new . They 're mostly sealed up now , dead - ends . I 'll have the guards check them anyway . Where were your guards when you came in ?」
Mary Sibley:「Well , they - they ... They were n't here . I - I saw the servant , and I - I thought it was safe .」
Francis:「They 'll be dealt with , but in the mean - time , that English envoy needs to be detained and questioned .」
Mary Sibley:「Do that ...」
narration:Francis has already taken off
Mary Sibley:「By all means .」
narration:ACT 3 , SCENE 2 - IN THE THRONE ROOM :
 Kenna , one of Mary 's ladies , stands by the windowsill alone , until the King approaches her
Kenna:「Your Grace .」
King Henry:「Had enough sun ...」
narration:Kenna touches her hand to her face
King Henry:「or are you blushing ?」
Kenna:「Both .」
King Henry:「I wondered when I might find a moment alone with you again , as I very much enjoyed our last . Then I decided a public chat might be the best way to protect your reputation .」
Kenna:「Hmmm . I did n't know ... I , um ... I 'd wondered if ...」
narration:She trails off
King Henry:「If it meant anything to me ? ( whispering ) I ca n't stop thinking about you . I wish we had n't stopped , but , but I understand why .」
Kenna:「A maiden 's virtue is everything .」
King Henry:「I want a woman , not a maiden . As King , I 've learned to be very clear about when to state my terms . Enjoy the festivities .」
narration:ACT 3 , SCENE 3 - IN A CORRIDOR :
 The King and Francis discuss what just happened in Mary 's chambers alone in a corridor
Francis:「The English ca n't do this , not under the laws of diplomacy , not under French law , not in our home .」
King Henry:「You ca n't prove they did anything until the servant 's body is found .」
Francis:「Corner the English envoy , torture him if needs be ... He 's had no problem torturing Mary .」
King Henry:「Simon 's having a glass of Sherry with my advisor . He 's well aware of the consequences if we can prove he 's behind this .」
Francis:「You 're not gon na do anything , are you ?」

King Henry:「I did n't say that .」
Francis:「You 're just going to keep her here , like some acquisition , a weapon you might never use .」
King Henry:「Alliances are weapons .」
Francis:「Her life is at risk over an alliance we may never honor . End it . Let her go .」
King Henry:「Her life is always at risk . She first came to us when she was six because the English wanted to kill her .」
Francis:「She 's no safer here than anywhere else .」
King Henry:「Exactly . Where do you think she 's going to go , back to Scotland ? Her mother does n't want her back , not without a King for a husband . She 's here doing her job , and her job is waiting for me to decide when you should marry her .」
narration:Francis fully plans on arguing further , but Henry has had enough
Francis:「She ...」
King Henry:「She is not going anywhere .」
Francis:「She 's not just an alliance ; She 's a girl , under your care , but that 's of no matter to you , is it ?」
King Henry:「I 'm intrigued by how much she matters to you . All this worry for a girl you claim you do n't want to marry .」
narration:With Francis now speechless , the King makes his exit
 ACT 3 , SCENE 4 - IN THE WOODS :
 Alone with his horse in the woods , Sebastian stops at a small bush and sees something on one of the leaves . Putting it between his fingers , he determines it 's blood . After walking several additional yards , he sees more blood on the ground . Bending down to inspect it , drops of blood fall to his face . Looking up , he sees a figure hung by the neck on a tree
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 ACT 4 , SCENE 1 - IN A CASTLE CORRIDOR :
 Mary and her ladies have gathered to await news on the girl and on Colin 's recovery . Francis joins them and pulls Mary aside
Francis:「The English Envoy has been questioned . He had an alibi for everything .」
Mary Sibley:「I 'm not surprised .」
Francis:「I hope you know I take your position seriously and I want to help ... As best I can . As I suspect my brother is already doing . I saw you talking . He 's gone after Colin , has n't he ?」
Mary Sibley:「Yes . Are you angry ?」
Francis:「No . No . You need more than a show of our support , but it 's - it 's near dark . He should be back by now . You must have given him some lead .」
Mary Sibley:「He was following a trail from the South keep . That 's all I know .」
narration:Francis turns to leave in search of Sebastian , but Mary has something else to say first . She grabs his hand
Mary Sibley:「Thank you .」
narration:Seeing Francis has left , Mary 's ladies report back to her

AYLEE:「We 've talked to the last of the servants , and the guards .」
Lola:「No one posted outside any of our doors or in that corridor saw someone leave your room with a body or a dying girl .」
Kenna:「And they would have .」
Mary Sibley:「They must have used the passageway .」
narration:ACT 4 , SCENE 2 - IN THE PASSAGES :
 Mary returns to the passageways by herself , hoping Clarissa will be open to talking with her
Mary Sibley:「Clarissa ?」
narration:Mary hears nothing but the echo of water dropplets hitting the ground and her own voice
Mary Sibley:「We can play if you want . , but I need your help .」
narration:Mary lays her candle down and pulls out several marbles , which she puts on the floor
Mary Sibley:「If you can hear me , come and find me .」
narration:She gets up and walks back to her room , but she stops dead in her tracks when she hears a noise behind her
Mary Sibley:「Does this mean you 'll speak to me ?」
narration:She returns back to the site with the marbles
Mary Sibley:「I have a guessing game for you . I 'm going to guess something , and if I guess right , you roll the marble back to me . If I guess wrong , you keep it ... it 's yours .」
narration:She picks up one of the marbles
Mary Sibley:「I think you know who 's trying to hurt me .」
narration:After tossing the marble and Clarissa not returning it , she asks another question
Mary Sibley:「Who is it ? Is it the English ? Is it Queen Catherine ? No , I 'm - I 'm sorry , I 'll ask one at a time .」
narration:Clarissa shoots several marbles at Mary
Mary Sibley:「Is it the English ?」
narration:When she does n't answer , Mary goes off after her
Mary Sibley:「Clarissa ? Clarissa ?」
narration:Clarissa is gone once Mary arrives , but she left behind a golden key and some crushed mineral , which Mary picks up
 ACT 4 , SCENE 3 - IN THE WOODS :
 In the woods , Bash has cut down Colin 's corpse . He scurries when he hears someone approaching on horseback , hiding in the bushes until he sees Francis is the approaching stranger
Francis:「No , Bash . Why were you hiding ?」
Bash ( whispering ):「How did you find me ?」
Francis:「You 're the one who taught me how to find snapped twigs and imprints in the soil .」
narration:Francis looks down and sees the body
Francis:「Is that Colin ?」
Bash:「Yes , it is . Let 's get him out of here . He did n't deserve to die like this , and Mary will want to send her subject home for a proper burial .」

Francis:「How did he die ?」
Bash:「Guess the guards got to him before we did .」
narration:Bash starts dragging his body by the hands , when Francis noices the rope tied arounf his feet . He puts his foot against the rope and prevents Bash from moving him any farther
Francis:「Our guards hang men by their necks , not their feet .」
narration:Francis bends down and gets a better look
Francis:「His throat 's been slit . There 's blood running up his face . He was bled out .」
Bash:「Well , you 'll find that the guards play by their own rules , little brother . Now , help me with him .」
narration:They start to move him together when a figure appears behind them
Francis:「What was that ? Are those the guards ?」
narration:Bash looks frightened
Francis:「You 've nothing to fear . They 're under our command .」
Bash:「Those are n't guards .」
narration:He and Francis both get up on their feet and look around intently
Bash ( to the figures ):「We take what 's ours , not yours .」
Francis:「They 're coming closer .」
Bash:「Even dead men answer to the King .」
narration:Francis pulls out his sword and commands Bash to do the same
Francis:「Draw your sword !」
narration:Instead , Bash pulls out a small knife and uses it to cut his own hand
Francis:「What are you doing ?」
narration:Bash lets drops of blood fall to the ground around him
Bash:「Lumenick dushkadar . Et spragon , faraha . Ay raynam doluchtaii !」
narration:The noises from the figures sound more and more distant
Bash:「They 're leaving . Let 's get out of here .」
Francis:「How can you be so sure ? What did you say ? !」
narration:Bash does n't have the time to argue , He picks up Colin 's body once again and starts to put it on his horse
Bash:「Francis , now !」
narration:Francis puts his sword up and does as Bash says . They load his body and take back off toward the castle
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 ACT 5 , SCENE 1 - BACK AT THE CASTLE :
 After taking the key Clarissa left her , Mary goes off in search of the door it opens , but before she can test the key in the Queen 's door , she is interrupted by a servant
Guard:「Your Grace ? Are you here to see Queen Catherine ?」
narration:Acting cool , she indicates to him that she 's dropping a note off
Mary Sibley:「A private thank you . She 'll see it when she returns .」

narration:The guard bows and leaves . Mary bends down and pretends to push the note under the door , but while she 's down there , she finally tries the key , seeing that it does n't work . She then leaves and tries another door , seeing that it DOES work . After turning the lock and opening the door , finding Simon in bed with the woman who was in her chambers earlier that day
Mary ( to Simon ):「Of course . It 's you .」
narration:The girl pulls the covers up over her chest
Mary Sibley:「But you were poisoned .」
Simon ( to the girl ):「There you go , my dear .」
narration:Simon tosses her a robe and she bolts out of the room
Simon:「Her carriage back to Orleans was delayed . My hope was to keep her out of sight .」
Mary Sibley:「So you admit it .... That you staged her poisoning to terrorize me .」
narration:Simon does n't say no
Mary Sibley:「Why would you do such a thing ? To show me what you 're capable of ? You showed me that at the convent . England shows me that every time you attack our borders .」
Simon:「You need to fear us here , at French court , because your being here angers us very much .」
Mary Sibley:「You threaten me , but it is the English who are afraid . There are rumors that your Queen is ill .. And my cousin Elizabeth is the next in line for the throne , but many say she 's illegitimate ... b*st*rd born .」
Simon:「And say the next rightful heir to the English throne is you .」
Mary Sibley:「But what if I do n't want it ? What if all I want is for England to leave Scotland in peace ?」
Simon:「Show us you 're not a threat . That you are not here to we d the next King of France for his armies .」
Mary Sibley:「Armies I need against you ! Because England wo n't stop .」
Simon:「We need to crush Scotland so we 're certain it wo n't rise against us .」
narration:Mary realizes that her pro - Elizabeth sentiment was futile
Mary Sibley:「You 'll never leave me in peace .」
Simon:「Someone has to make the first move . Someone has to instill trust . Leave France , abandon the alliance .」
Mary Sibley:「And trust you ?」
Simon:「You think you can trust the French ? You have powerful enemies here , and you know it , or you 'd be screaming right now for the guards . Where were yours , by the way , when we went into your room ?」
Mary ( to herself ):「She said yes to both . ( to Simon ) You have Catherine 's support in this .」
Simon:「Would n't that make life for me , and the loss of yours , so much easier ?」
narration:ACT 5 , SCENE 2 - AT A FEAST :
 Downstairs , a group of people are feasting . Kenna sits at the table , while Henry lurks in the doorway , watching her every move

Kenna:「I have thought about your offer .」
King Henry:「I 've thought about you accepting it .」
Kenna:「Do you see that man over there , the one who ca n't take his eyes off me ?」
narration:Henry turns and looks
King Henry:「I believe that 's Robert , the viscount of Lorraine .」
Kenna:「Well , I need to be spending my time with him or any other available noble . Men that I might marry , who need to know I 'm a virgin , so there 's no question whether or not our child is their heir . Men to whom my virtue matters ... Sorry .」
King Henry:「I understand your position completely .」
narration:ACT 5 , SCENE 3 - IN THE STABLES :
 After returning from the woods with Colin 's body , Francis remains curious about the events leading up to them leaving the woods
Francis:「I know you do n't want to talk about it , but that language that you spoke .....」
Bash ( stopping him ):「I told you it 's nothing , it 's just an old dialect .」
Francis:「It 's pagan or druid . Call it what you want , but it 's heresy . It sounded very much like a prayer that you knew well . What were you saying ?」
narration:Bash makes it clear that the topic is still not up for discussion
Francis:「I remember some of the words . Would you rather that I went to a scholar , to Nostradamus ?」
narration:Finally , he gives in
BASH:「" Deep the roots , dark the night , red the blood I will pay " ... It 's nonsense , but the Vagrants in the woods believe it .」
Francis:「Vagrantsis that what those were ? And , Colin ? Was his death part of this blood oath ?」
Bash:「I found him hanging . They used him as a sacrifice . Now you know why the woods are n't safe .」
Francis:「You went into them for Mary .」
Bash:「She 's your fiance .. I felt duty - bound to help her .」
Francis:「Bash , we 're brothers . We could always trust each other regardless of our station . Let that be the last lie you tell me .」
narration:ACT 5 , SCENE 4 - IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 Finally , Francis debriefs Mary on the state of the search
Mary Sibley:「If Colin is dead , then it 's over . I have no proof against my enemy . I came here to marry you ; a marriage that would protect both me and my country . And it scares the English . They fear your country 's power .」
Francis:「They 'll fear it when I 'm King , I promise you .」
Mary Sibley:「And I would wait .... For our marriage , for the chance of your country 's support , If I had some faith that I could survive your mother .」
narration:Francis seems insulted at the suggestion that his mother is involved
Francis:「No ...」

Mary ( interrupting him ):「I ca n't prove it . I have no one who will speak openly , no evidence that you can hold in your hand . I have nothing but confirmation from an enemy ... and someone else , a girl , who I believe more than anyone .」
Francis:「My mother would n't harm you . She has no cause to . She knows that I wo n't we d you unless it 's right for France .」
Mary Sibley:「I ca n't make sense of it either ... but she did it . She was behind it all , I am sure of it . She terrorized me ... and it worked . If your conscience , your politics , wo n't allow you to marry me , then the English feel that they have a clean shot at me with the Queen of France as their weapon . I ca n't stay here . Even my mother will understand because I ca n't bring home any armies - and I ca n't we d any Kings - if I 'm dead .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 ACT 6 , SCENE 1 - IN KENNA 'S CHAMBERS :
 Whilst preparing herself to go to sleep , Kenna hears a knock at her door . It 's King Henry and he has come to make an introduction
King Henry:「Kenna , you remember Robert , the viscount of Lorraine ?」
Kenna:「Yes ?」
King Henry:「Robert , will you take Lady Kenna as your bride , no questions asked , because it 's a union blessed by your King ?」
ROBERT:「As you wish , Your Majesty .」
King Henry:「Thanks , Robert . That will be all .」
narration:Robert smiles slyly and makes his exit
King Henry:「You need n't worry . Being in the King 's favor expands your prospects . It does n't limit them . Think about that , too .」
narration:Henry plants a passionate kiss on Kenna
King Henry:「Think about that too .」
narration:ACT 6 , SCENE 2 - IN THE THRONE ROOM :
 Francis stands alone in the throne room , looking at the spot in which he 'll one day sit as King , when Catherine arrives
Francis:「I hope to be a good King someday , which is why I will never put anything - any love - ahead of the love for my country . Why do you doubt that ?」
Queen Catherine:「What makes you think I do ?」

Francis:「You put a boy to death - two boys - one with the sweep of a paintbrush , a red " X " carelessly applied ... a life over ... another boy slain in the woods .」
Queen Catherine:「Mistakes were made . We tried to bring Colin back even though he was a traitor .」
Francis:「If he 's a traitor , then what are you ? Who are you loyal to ?」
Queen Catherine:「My family , France , you - as they are one and the same .」
Francis:「Because you ca n't trust father and he ca n't divorce you . I mean , you must wonder what he 'd do to you if he could , so you put all your hopes , your survival on the favor of the next King - me but , mother ... You must understand that my , my marriage to Mary , to anyone wo n't change my loyalty to you .」
Queen Catherine:「Is the pull so strong ?」
Francis:「Yes . Yes , it is . But it does n't matter .... Mary came here in good faith , and now ...」
Queen Catherine:「Well , now what ? Is she leaving ?」
Francis:「It was you .」
Queen Catherine:「No .」

Francis:「You need to stop this . If anything happens to Mary -- anything --I will suspect you and I wo n't need proof . And you will lose me .」
narration:Francis leaves in a hurry . Catherine grabs him by the arm to stop him , but she 's unsucessful
 ACT 6 , SCENE 3 - IN CATHERINE 'S CHAMBERS :
Queen Catherine:「I 'll ready myself for bed tonight .」
SERVANT:「Yes , Your Majesty .」
narration:All of the servants leave , but one guard . After the room is clear , she starts stripping her body of the jewelery and asking him questions
Queen Catherine:「Where did you find him ?」
Guard:「Colin ? He 'd gone into the blood wood ... stupid scot .」
Queen Catherine:「How convenient for you .」
Guard:「Made him easy to catch and string up .」
Queen Catherine:「Like the heretics do in the woods ?」

narration:In the courtyard at the castle , people - like Queen Catherine , King Henry , Mary , Queen of Scots and her Ladies in Waiting - are gathered around , watching Francis and Tomás compete against one another in a game of archery .
NOSTRADAMUS:「( Speaking to Catherine , who sits between he and King Henry ) Who designed the target ?」
CATHERINE:「Oh . Who knows ? They say it looks like the castle ghost - the girl they blame for every girl or servant that runs off , or goes missing .」
narration:Francis and Tomás stand beside one another . Each holding their own bow and several arrows .
FRANCIS:「( Speaking to Tomás ) Nice shot , Tomás , but the object is to hit the heart .」
TOMÁS:「Is it ?」
narration:Francis nods , as Tomás goes to retrieve another arrow . The camera pans in on Mary , Kenna , Greer , Lola and Aylee , as they sit nearby ; watching the events unfold
OFFSCREEN VOICE ( to Mary , who looks unamused ):「Is he allowed to take another shot ?」
narration:Tomás aims his bow and arrow toward the target . This time , he hits the target in precicely the correct place . Looking proud of his accomplishment , he gazes into the crowd - noticing the tension in the air
TOMÁS ( to Francis ):「Did I take too many shots ?」
FRANCIS:「Technically , yes . Shall I take another shot too ?」
TOMÁS:「Take as many shots as you would like . ( glancing over at Mary , then back to Francis ) You will still lose .」
narration:Francis pulls out an arrow , fixes it to his bow and takes a shot - hitting the target just inches from Tomás ' last shot . The crowd gives him an applause . Tomás smiles slightly and makes a hand gesture
AYLEE:「Does Tomás seem different these last few days ? A little more bold ?」
KENNA:「More intense ?」
OFFSCREEN VOICE:「More * unintelligible * anyway」
AYLEE:「More engaged to Mary , certainly .」
MARY:「Not all the way engaged ; not yet .」
GREER:「And how do you feel about that ? I detect reservations .」
MARY:「It does n't matter how I feel . I have to marry who 's right for Scotland .」
AYLEE:「How do you feel if Tomás is that man ?」
MARY:「I feel that we should remember it 's still a secret . At least until King Henry releases me from my engagement to Francis .」
GREER ( laughing ):「That 's no answer .」
narration:Mary 's uncle - CLOUDE DE GUISE - joins the girls .
CLOUDE DE GUISE ( as he reaches his hand for Mary to take ):「Walk with your uncle .」
narration:She takes his hand and they walk away to chat privately
MARY:「Almost agreed ? ( Her annoyance is clear ) You and King Henry have been talking for days . What have you been discussing ? The weather ?」

CLOUDE DE GUISE:「These are tricky matters of state . Your marriage treaty with Portugal does not end our alliance with France . It just changes it . Still ... for Henry 's approval , there will be conditions .」
MARY:「I will not beg for something I 'm not sure I want .」
CLOUDE DE GUISE:「You will beg because Scotland needs this . Portugal 's ships will keep the English from raiding our borderland . Henry wo n't offer the same protection , but he 's still a king and kings ca n't be seen letting allies walk freely from treaties .」
MARY:「But queens can be seen begging release from treaties that go unenforced ?」
CLOUDE DE GUISE:「You 'll be queen of nothing if you do n't make Scotland safe from England - and you ca n't do that without Portugal 's strength , which you ca n't have without Henry 's release to marry Tomás .」
ACT 2:「THE CASTLE」
narration:Nostradamus is seen tending to the wounds of Bash , who was gravely injured before he was able to relay Henry 's message to the French companies about traveling to Scotland to fight the English .
LOLA ( enters the room ):「Queen Mary is anxious to know how Bash is .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「The wound is closing , but the disease in his blood is speading . If the fever does n't break by tonight ...」
LOLA ( interrupting Nostradamus ):「He could die . So soon ?」
SEBASTIAN ( coming to consciousness ):「You 're scaring the poor girl , Nostradamus . Where 's your chivalry ?」
LOLA:「Bash ... How do you feel ?」
SEBASTIAN:「Close to death , apparently , which feels more or less how it sounds .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「You need to rest , Sebastian .」
SEBASTIAN:「What I need is water . Perhaps a little bit more of that lovely * unintelligble * LOLA ( smiling widely )」
narration:Nostradamus brings Sebastian a cup of water , handing it to Lola , who puts the cup to Sebastian 's mouth - helping him drink . He takes a few sips before coughing lightly
SEBASTIAN:「So , will you run back to Mary with the troubling news ; with your other ladies , or will you stay and look death in the face ?」
LOLA:「I nursed two of my brothers into the grave ... scarlet fever - and I 've known other losses too . Not scared of death anymore .. I 'm scared of being alone .」
SEBASTIAN:「There 's a difference ?」
NOSTRADAMUS:「I 'm terribly sorry , but this is not helping him rest .」
SEBASTIAN:「Every time I look at her , I feel better . Every time I look at you , I feel worse . The prescription is clear , do n't you think ?」
narration:Nostradamus takes the cup and leaves the room

SEBASTIAN:「There 's a book of Norse mythology over there . If you would n't mind reading that to me ... unless , of course , you want to go back to the torment .」
LOLA:「Not at all .. ( She flips the book open and looks at some of the pictures )」
ACT 3:「BACK IN THE COURTYARD」
narration:Mary has now returned to her seat . Only now , Lola is gone . Kenna , Greer and Aylee still sit nearby . Francis and Tomás continue to shoot arrows at the target
AYLEE ( speaking to Mary ):「So . Is it done ? Are you marrying ?」
MARY:「The agreement is close , but it 's complicated .」
GREER:「Is anything uncomplicated in France ?」
narration:What looks to be a servant approaches Tomás and Francis , carrying a single rose on a silk pillow . Tomás picks the rose up and carries it over to Mary .
TOMÁS:「Will you accept my favor , Mary , Queen of Scots ? ( Tomás looks around , noticing that people are whispering )」
TOMÁS ( to Francis ):「Have I offended ?」
FRANCIS:「Not at all . Please .」
MARY ( reaching for the rose ):「Thank you , Tomás . I am honored .」
narration:After seeing Mary accept the rose from Tomás , Francis storms off . Mary gets out of her seat , lays the rose down on it and follows him
MARY:「I 'm sorry , that was thoughtless of him to publicly offer his favor」
FRANCIS:「I do n't know . I think it was very well thought out , but I do n't see the point . He has already won your hand , Has n't he ?」
MARY:「The treaty is almost complete .」
FRANCIS:「So , you 're leaving .」
MARY:「Francis , I wanted to tell you」
FRANCIS:「If you mean to tell me you do n't want to go , please do n't . I 'm trying to help . I did everything I could to help Scotland , so you could stay . It was almost enough . If not for one single spy . Someone who 's probably here with us right now .」
MARY:「I 'm so sorry .」
narration:Mary goes to press her hand against Francis ' cheek , but he pulls away from her .
MEANWHILE:「A white haired man approaches King Henry and begins whispering something in his ear . )」
KENNA:「What 's he telling King Henry ?」
narration:Henry looks on disapprovingly , clearly upset over something
KENNA:「It 's not good news .」
AYLEE:「I hope it 's not Bash .」
narration:Suddenly Henry sits up . A team of guards go over to apprehend Simon Westbrook ; The English diplomat
SIMON:「What is this ? Take your hands off of me ! I 'm Lord Simon Westbrook . I 'm the envoy of England !」

HENRY:「You 're a murderer and a spy ! You slipped word to you country - men that French troops were being sent to Scotland . You caused a slaughter , nearly killing my son !」
SIMON:「That 's absurd ! I 'm a diplomat ! I 'm here to help keep the peace .」
HENRY:「Then you failed your mission ! So your Queen wo n't mind when I send her your head . Take him away !」
narration:The knights do as they are told
SIMON ( still resisting imprisonment ):「Your majesty ... you 're mstaken .. Let go of me . I 've done no such thing . Why would I ? !」
ACT 2:「CASTLE」
narration:Back in the castle , Mary is upstairs pacing in front of a large , stained glass window
Queen Catherine:「Poor Mary . You feel like the King will never see you . And you 're a queen .」
MARY:「I 'm glad that my unhappiness brings you such pleasure .」
QUEEN CATHERINE ( somewhat laughing as she speaks ):「Your unhappiness gives me no pleasure . You 're absence , however ...」
MARY ( interrupting the Queen ):「Why do you hate me so ? If I 'm going to Portugal ; why not just say it ? You were kind to me when I was young .」

Queen Catherine:「When I look at you , I see death . I see your country , hanging around my son 's neck . I see his men off defending your country ; dying ..」
MARY:「If I am such a burden , make the King release me . So I may be Portugal 's burden instead .」
Queen Catherine:「I wish I could , but Henry feels that Scotland has been poached from him .」
MARY:「How can I make the King change his mind ?」
Queen Catherine:「Well , there is one small thing . IN THE THRONE ROOM :」
narration:Mary has come to speak with the King about releasing her from her engagement to Francis . After the conversation she just had with Catherine , she bows down to the King as he sits on his throne
MARY:「and how may I help France , your majesty ?」
KING HENRY:「These English ; we keep them at court to help keep peace , but it appears they do n't want peace .」
Queen Catherine:「Their envoy , Simon , was overheard boasting in a local tavern about his role in the ambush -- how he warned his countrymen of our soldier 's movements .」
KING HENRY:「The trouble is , to condem a diplomat , we need testimony no nation can question . A witness whose word is unassailable .」

Queen Catherine:「Instead , we have her .」
narration:Catherine brings attention to a young girl also standing in the throne room . The whole room erupts in a audible whisper . Francis approaches Mary to fill her in on the girl 's history
FRANCIS ( whispering to Mary ):「She 's a prostitute , Mary , but a very brave woman . She came here at great risk to aid the King 's justice .」
MARY:「You want me to put my name to her words ?」
FRANCIS:「If you do n't , the man goes free -- the man who put my brother at death 's door .」
MARY ( approaching the girl ):「What is your name ?」
JUDITH:「Judith , uh ( she curtsies the Queen ) , my lady .」
MARY:「and you saw Simon with your own eyes , Judith ?」
JUDITH:「Yeah and I heard them call him by name too . He had a fine face and posh clothes and that medallion around his neck . The one with the sun 's rays .」
MARY:「The Royal English seal ? And you know that this seal means he is a very powerful man and that he could hurt you , but you came forward anyway . Why ?」

JUDITH:「I heard how that Englishman talked . He 's a heartless man , playing games with other men 's lives .」
MARY ( seeming to believe the girl 's story , thus turning to face the King ):「If I sign my name to her statement , will you release me from my engagement to Francis ?」
narration:Henry nods his head in agreement
MARY:「Very well , then .」
KING HENRY:「Notify the executioner . The English spy will lose his head at the * unintelligible * banquet .」
narration:OUTSIDE THE THRONE ROOM :
NOSTRADAMUS:「Well it 's done ? Mary is engaged to Tomás and she 's leaving ? You 've gotten your wish .」
Queen Catherine:「I never wished for a spy to cause French blood to spill .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「Then , it 's unfortunate for you that that spy happened to be Simon .」
Queen Catherine:「Perhaps he made himself useful so that I would overlook his larger crime . I will not .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「So the end justifies the means ?」
Queen Catherine:「This will save my son 's life . Unless you tell me your visions have changed .」

NOSTRADAMUS:「No . If anything , it 's the opposite . My dreams are more vivid , more ominous . Mary 's presence here will cost you your firstborn . IN MARY 'S ROOM :」
narration:After Henry officially releases Mary from her engagement to Francis , she immediately went to her room to begin packing her belongings . Her ladies - in - waiting eventually retire to her room wth her
GREER:「The engagement 's been officially for less than an hour and you 're already packing ?」
MARY:「I have no choice . We 're going to Portugal in two days -- right after the Michaelmas banquet .」
AYLEE:「You 're leaving ? ! What about us ? You do n't want us to come with you ?」
MARY:「Of course I do - More than anything , but you do have a choice ! I ca n't ask you to come with me when none of you expected to live in Portugal . You all moved from Scotland to live here , in France .」
LOLA:「No , Mary . We left to be with you . MARY」
narration:In unison , all of the girls , except for Kenna , say " of course . "
MARY:「I do n't deserve any of you .」
GREER:「You deserve to marry someone you love , or at least like .」
MARY:「Kings and Queens do n't have that luxury .」
narration:IN THE COURTYARD :
 An upset Francis is outside , shooting arrows at person etched out of shubbery . Mary comes upon he scene , seeing that he had hit the target several times in the heart
MARY:「I wonder whose face you 're imagining on that target . A Portuguese , perhaps ?」
narration:Francis smiles faintly , before reloading his bow with another arrow
FRANCIS:「Maybe next time . This time , it 's that English envoy .」
narration:He arches back to shoot , releasing the arrow , where it makes contact with the dummy 's heart
MARY:「Simon 's lucky you 're not the headsman , or he 'd be dead already .」
FRANCIS:「I do n't know who 's lucky anymore . I use to think that we were . The * mumble * we had as children ; The time we 've had since you 've been back at court . Now I feel those days like something sharp in my heart .」
MARY:「Let 's not speak of this ...」
narration:Francis puts down his bow and brings Mary close to him
MARY:「I want ... I just wish ...」
FRANCIS ( interrupting Mary ):「Mary , we ca n't . We ca n't ...」
narration:Francis looks around , making sure no one is spying on the pair
FRANCIS:「The castle .」
narration:Mary kisses Francis ' hand and begins thinking
MARY:「Maybe we can find some other place ? At sunset ?」

narration:Mary releases her grip on Francis and begins to walk away . Meanwhile , it is revealed that someone has indeed been spying ; One of Tomas ' men . He then goes to report what he witnessed to Tomas
ACT 3:「KING 'S CHAMBERS」
narration:THE KING 'S CHAMBERS :
 Henry hears a knock on the door of his bedroom chambers . He goes to answer it , finding Kenna standing there
HENRY:「Kenna」
KENNA:「Your grace」
narration:He opens the door further and Kenna walks into the room , smiling at him
HENRY:「I was surprised when you were announced , I did n't think ...」
narration:Before he can finish , she kisses him passionately
HENRY ( without looking up or breaking their embrace ):「You seem different now ... more willing .」
KENNA:「I am .」
HENRY:「I wonder why .」
KENNA:「I 'm leaving in two days . I want this .」
narration:They finally stop kissing for a moment to talk
HENRY:「Is that meant to convince you , or me ? Are you sure of this ?」
KENNA:「Yes , but it 's not all I want . I want to stay .」
HENRY:「Stay ? Stay as what ? You 're Mary 's lady . If she 's gone , what position would you hold at court ?」
KENNA:「Well , the position you would give me ... as your mistress . Perhaps , in time , I could have more .」
HENRY:「Kenna ; I have a mistress . Diane has been with me for half my life . We 've had decades together . The heart needs time .」
KENNA:「Mine does n't and even if it does , I have no time .」
narration:Kenna is clearly displeased with how the conversation devolved . Thus , she decides to leave
 IN THE INFIRMARY :
 Upstairs in the castle , Francis stands over the bed of his sleepy brother , who is still fighting for his life
FRANCIS ( speaking to his mother , who enters the room through a loud door ):「I 'm trying to understand how this could happen , but I ca n't . We 're not at war with the English ; We were careful to send enough men to discourage their aggression but not , not to threaten them . QUEEN CATHERINE ( trying to console Fancis )」
FRANCIS:「I do n't blame myself , I blame Simon . My instincts were right and the Portuguese proved it . As soon as the English saw that Scotland had a friend that would defend them , they stopped their attacks . If it were n't for that ambush ...」
Queen Catherine:「Mary would still be yours ..」

FRANCIS:「This is not about my broken heart , mother .」
Queen Catherine:「No . It 's about your good heart . I 'm not mocking you Francis , your heart is good ; it 's good enough to love your b*st*rd brother and to try to love your future wife . If only your father 's heart could do that ...」
FRANCIS:「If only mine could stop . What if Mary 's just moving from one waiting game , to another ?」
Queen Catherine:「Let her go , Francis . You'e worrying over nothing .」
FRANCIS:「You would say that . You ca n't stand her ! My instincts say not to trust Tomas . And they were right before , maybe it 's time to stop doubting them . IN THE COURTYARD :」
narration:Mary is outside of the castle awaiting sunset when Francis is set to meet her in private
MARY ( seeing Francis walk toward her , she breaks out into a smile ):「I almost thought you were n't coming .」
FRANCIS:「I 've been busy .」
MARY:「I know . You 've been asking questions about Tomas . It 's all over the castle and if I 've heard ...」

FRANCIS ( interrupting Mary ):「Tomas will hear too . I do n't care . Let him think I 'm jealous if he wants to .. as long as he knows he 's accountable for how he treats you . I hear he 's cruel , to his servants .」
MARY:「Francis ; thank you . You do n't need to worry . Now come , sit with me .」
narration:Mary grabs Francis by the hand and leads him underneath a nearby tree . They sit together
MARY:「I 've asked my uncle to be sure of my safety in Portugal . He assures me it will be fine .」
FRANCIS:「You need more than your uncle 's word . Mary , if anything happens to you , I 'll feel responsible . When I could n't make Scotland safe , I told you to marry this man .」
MARY:「I 'm not going into this blindly and I wo n't let him hurt me .」
FRANCIS:「There are rumors about his scheming ; his cruelty .」
MARY:「There are rumors about all royals . You know what they say about you ? Half of Europe thinks that you 're sickly ; and weak ; and stunted .」
FRANCIS:「That half - blind portrait artist did n't realize I was sitting in a chair while my sister was standing , and now , half of Europe thinks I 'm a dwarf .」
MARY ( laughing ):「They say Bash got all the good looks and passion , and all you have is tedious ...」
narration:Before Mary can finish her sentence , Francis stops her with a passionate kiss . He gently pushes Mary down onto a blanket under the tree and they continue kissing , whilst Francis runs his hands all over her body
 IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 After her conversation with Francis , she retreats to her room with her ladies in waiting ; Greer , Lola , Kenna and Aylee . When they enter the room , all happy and overtly giddy , they are met by Tomás and another gentleman accompanying him
MARY:「Tomás ...」
TOMÀS:「Forgive me , Mary . I needed to see you and and I could n't wait for formalities . I would like to discuss some rules and your ladies should hear them too .」
MARY:「Rules ?」
TOMÀS:「Rules you will live by in Portugal . You seem to believe that until you marry me , we are somehow free . If so , you 're mistaken .」
MARY:「My lord , I do n't know if I like your tone .」
TOMÀS:「Do you have whipping boys in Scotland ?」
MARY:「Whipping boys ? Well , some use them ...」
TOMÀS:「Good . Miguel is now your whipping boy .」
narration:Tomás rears back and smacks Miguel very hard across the face
TOMÀS:「That is for the offense of questioning me .」
MARY ( understandably upset ):「Tomás .. please .」
narration:Tomás once again plants a large smack on the whipping boy 's face
TOMÀS:「That is for interrupting me .」

narration:Mary does n't say another word to him on the subject
TOMÀS:「You are bound by a treaty agreed by your betters」
narration:Tomás picks up a glass on a table and drops it onto the ground , causing it to shatter into pieces
TOMÀS:「Whatever freedoms of actions or thought you were given by Francis , forget them . When I am King , I will rule like most」
Kings:「what belongs to my Queen belongs to me . For Miguel 's sake , I hope we are clear . Are we ?」
MARY:「Yes , My lord . Quite clear .」
narration:At this , Miguel and Tomás exit the room
AYLEE:「You ca n't marry him . I beg of you .」
MARY:「Aylee」
AYLEE:「but you 're a queen , there must be some other way」
MARY:「If there was any other option , do n't you think I would take it ? I have to marry Tomás , no matter who he is」
ACT 4:「THE INFIRMARY」
narration:IN THE INFIRMARY :
 Nostradamus puts his hand over Bash 's forehead , checking his temperature
NOSTRADAMUS ( to Francis ):「Good news . The fever is broken .」
FRANCIS ( breathing a sigh of relief ):「Ahh . Thank God .」
BASH:「Ahh . So can I get out ?」
NOSTRADAMUS:「I would n't recommend it . You 're going to live if you do n't tear your wound open ; if you keep resting ; if you take proper care .」
BASH:「If I have to spend one more moment in this bed ..」
NOSTRADAMUS ( cutting Bash off ):「I 'm going to make us both feel better and leave .」
narration:Nostradamus does as he said he would ; he leaves . As he exits , Francis hands Bash a tin cup
BASH:「You promised you 'd sneak me some wine , you liar . You look worse than I do .」
narration:Bash passes the tin back over to Francis
BASH:「It 's Tomás , is n't it ? Lola told me about your inquiries .」
FRANCIS:「I do n't have any proof yet , but everything in me says that he 's a monster . There are whispers in court that he murdered his first wife .」
BASH:「If they could n't find proof in Portugal , how will you find it here ?」
FRANCIS:「I do n't know yet , but I have to try . I ca n't let Mary ...」
narration:Suddenly , Tomás enters the room and interrupts the conversation
TOMÀS:「But you can , and you must . You 've been asking questions about me . Did you think I would n't know ?」
FRANCIS:「No . No , I hoped you would .」
TOMÀS:「Why ?」
FRANCIS:「Because your future wife is a friend of France . Her well - being concerns this country , and always will .」

TOMÀS:「Is that a threat ? If anything happens to Mary , you 'll what ?」
FRANCIS:「I would hope we wo n't need to find out . Would n't you , as her fiance ?」
TOMÀS:「If anything happens to her , it will be up to me . She 's my property now , not yours . No matter how many touches you steal . You 'll never be more than the powerless princeling who could n't even send a few men to defend her country .」
narration:At this , Francis launches himself at Tomás , trying to hit him . Bash tries to hold him back .
BASH:「Francis , no !」
narration:Bash appears to be in great pain , perhaps because he tore open his wound . Francis helps him back to bed
FRANCIS:「Sit .」
narration:Tomás lets out a little laugh and leaves them alone
FRANCIS:「Go ahead ; say it . I 'm not thinking with my head .」
BASH:「Head , heart , who cares ? He is a monster , no matter what the pope chooses to call him ; and if you wo n't kill him , I will .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 ELSEWHERE IN THE CASTLE :
 The rest of the residents at court are preparing for the costume ball that 's set to take place later that evening . Mary and her ladies gather around , looking through costumes and jewelery
MARY:「Well , I would never know there was a costume banquet in an hour from the faces I see .」
LOLA:「How can you be so cheerful , knowing how soon we 're leaving ?」
MARY:「Should I spend my last hours in France with moping and tears ?」
KENNA ( seeing King Heny from across the room ):「Do n't forget pining and regret .」
narration:Greer also sees her lover from across the room ; the servant who she is embroiled in a tryst with
GREER:「Mary 's right . What 's the matter with us ? Why wallow in misery if we have a choice ? Why not use the hours we have left to seize some pleasure while we still can ?」
KENNA:「Yes . Some pleasure .」
narration:Kenna holds a dress up to her body for the others to inspect
KENNA:「Or perhaps some spite .」
MARY:「A lovely wood sprite ! France will never forget you .」
KENNA:「I hope that they wo n't .」
AYLEE ( to Greer , who is also looking for a perfect dress to wear ):「You want to dress up in a footman 's livery ? Yes .」
GREER:「Why not ? But in case I change my mind , I 'll take both . IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :」
narration:In her chambers , Mary is trying on a pair of earrings in the mirror , until she hears some rumblng across the room . She goes to inspect to find a nicknack left among her possessions
MARY ( inspecting the trinket ):「What 's this ? The royal English seal .」

narration:Mary begins thinking about the significance of the find , realizing who left it and why
MARY ( to herself and outloud ):「This is Simon 's , is n't it ? Why would you want me to have this ?」
narration:IN THE COURTYARD :
 Bash has finally got out of his bed and is outside moving his sword around . Finally , Lola approaches him in some sort of an angel costume
LOLA ( to Bash ):「I 've been looking for you everywhere .」
BASH ( amused ):「I know you . I met you in a dream I had about norse gods and goddesses from that book we read . The reality 's better .」
LOLA:「Are you sure you should be swinging that sword ? You might reopen your wound .」
BASH:「Well , better my sword reopens it than someone else 's .」
narration:From behind Lola , Bash spots Francis in his costume
BASH:「Aha ! St. Michael , are n't you ? Better be a real sword if you plan to slay Lucifer .」
FRANCIS:「You had to bring up Tomás ?」
LOLA:「I do n't understand why he changed so quickly . Before Mary said yes , Tomás seemed a whole other person .」
FRANCIS:「He was desperate . He 'd been looking for a Queen all over the continent . No doubt to make sure the pope declared him legitimate . Of course he 'd put on an act if it got what him he wanted .」
BASH:「Well , he got bloody lucky ; did n't he ? If I had n't been ambushed getting those men off to Scotland , Mary would n't be marrying him .」
FRANCIS:「Say that again . If our men had n't been ambushed , then Mary would n't need his men , or his marriage proposal .」
narration:IN THE THRONE ROOM :
 As the party kicks off , Simon is sitting , chained up in what appears to be the throne room ; watching as people eat , drink and celebrate all around him
MARY ( approaching Simon to chat ):「Simon , I was told I could find you here .」
SIMON:「So you 've heard . I 'm the entertainment . Or my head is , when it comes off at midnight .」
narration:Mary does n't show even a note of concern for his predicament
SIMON:「Try not to look so upset .」
MARY:「Why would I be upset ?」
SIMON:「I understand you signed the statement naming me as the spy behind that ambush . I do n't suppose you care that I 'm innocent ? MARY」
narration:Mary is holding the seal she found left for her in her room .
SIMON:「Is that my seal stamp ? Wondered where that thing went .」
MARY:「Tell me ; why is your seal so similar to the royal English seal ?」
SIMON:「The Queen is a cousin by marriage . She styles the rose white , we style it red . Why do you ask ?」
MARY:「A friend of mine was interested . Thought I might be interested , too .」

narration:Tomás has been watching Mary from afar and decides to forcibly end the conversation
TOMÀS:「Mary ? Come here , please .」
narration:Mary listens to Tomás and begins walking toward him -- covering her face with a mask
MARY:「Good evening , my Lord .」
TOMÀS:「You look like a huntress .」
MARY:「I chose my costume for you . I know that the bow is your favorite weapon .」
TOMÀS:「My second favorite , but thank you .」
narration:Tomás grabs Mary by the arm and pushes her toward him in an aggressive fashion
MARY:「Your grip is a little tight , my Lord .」
TOMÀS:「No tighter than your former fiance 's ; I 'm sure .」
MARY:「I 'm sure I do n't know what you mean .」
TOMÀS:「Hey . Must I send for your whipping boy ?」
narration:Francis grabs Tomás
FRANCIS:「Let go of her .」
narration:Tomás aggressively pulls away from Francis
TOMÀS:「You 've forgotten our talk . Mary is my fiance now .」
FRANCIS:「You came here almost a crown prince , but not quite . You needed a Queen to seal your deal with the pope . And when Mary needed troops sent to her country , you were suddenly there to help , because my men were ambushed ...」
MARY:「on a tip from a spy in court -- a spy we assumed was Simon .」
FRANCIS:「When Tomas had a far better motive .」
narration:Tomás grabs Mary 's arm again
TOMÀS:「If you 're accusing the next King of Portugal ; I hope you have proof .」
FRANCIS:「We 'll have proof soon enough . In the meantime , let go of Mary .」
narration:Tomás does let go and he storms off , pushing Bash as he walks by him
FRANCIS:「Are you all right ?」
MARY:「Yes . You said you 'd have proof ? Did you mean his valet Miguel ?」
FRANCIS:「Tomas could not have acted alone .」
MARY:「He hates his master . I think he 'll help us if we can protect him .」
FRANCIS:「We will . I 've sent guards to find him .」
MARY:「If Simon is innocent , and the woman whose words I signed my name to lied , she 's a pawn in this King 's game as much as I am . She might help us , too . Otherwise , If Simon dies wrongly , we will both have war with England . And we ca n't let that happen .」
narration:OUTSIDE ; IN THE COURT YARD :
 As Francis and Bash go to look for proof of his involvement , Lola comes looking for them
LOLA:「Miguel was n't in his chambers , but a footman said he saw him leaving with Tomas , headed for the game trails .」
BASH:「Hunting now ?」

FRANCIS:「Tomas must want to kill Miguel before anyone talks to him .」
narration:Francis and Bash take off on horseback , in search of Miguel
ACT 5:「AT THE COSTUME BALL」
narration:AT THE COSTUME BALL :
 Greer is standing in the main ball room , in a beautiful gown with a mask covering her features . Suddenly , she is approached by the kitchen boy ; Leith
LEITH ( pulling her aside ):「Is there anything my Lady wants ?」
GREER:「Keep your voice down ! You 're a kitchen boy . If anyone catches you here , you 'll be flogged .」
LEITH:「Did you leave this costume in my room , or did n't you ?」
GREER:「Yes , but we have to be discreet .」
narration:She guides Leith to a small tree in the corner of the room
GREER ( in a hushed tone ):「My family is depending on me to bring home a title and lands -- to marry someone who 's better than me .」
GREER:「Why not just celebrate michaelmas ?
 What does that even mean ?」
LEITH:「Saint Michael . He slewed Lucifer ; who sewed vanity , pride and shame , which is why we wear these masks . So on this one day , no one 's better than anyone else ; We 're all the same .」
narration:Greer kisses him passiontely
MEANWHILE:「ELSEWHERE IN THE KINGDOM」
narration:Mary , Francis and Bash have caught up wth Judith ; the prostitute who fingered Simon for the attack on French troops
JUDITH:「What lies ! Why would I ?」
MARY:「I 'd say for the money to buy that new cloak and those boots , and to get a ride out of town on that vegetable cart .」
narration:Mary looks at a bruise on Judith 's face
MARY ( pointing it out ):「And for this ; to make him stop hitting you .」
JUDITH:「I got that from a patron .」
MARY:「When I signed your statement , you told me that you saw Simon clearly . His face ; his clothes ; his medallion . What was the color of the rose on his medallion ? I 'll make it easy for you . Was it red or white ?」
JUDITH:「It was white , the seal of the English crown .」
MARY:「Simon 's seal is different from England 's . His rose is red .」
JUDITH:「Please leave me be . I 'm so scared .」
MARY:「The King will have your head for your lies . But he may show you mercy if you tell me who made you lie , and tell me now !」
JUDITH:「He swore he would kill me .」
MARY:「He was n't lying if he 's who I think he is . Just tell me this」
MARY ( to the knights that are accompanying her ):「Get her on a horse . We do n't have much time .」
ELSEWHERE:「IN THE WOODS」

narration:Tomás and Miguel are galavanting off into the woods , with Tomás asking questions to ensure they covered their tracks
TOMÀS:「And you made sure the prostitute left the village ?」
MIGUEL:「I gave her the extra gold , like you said . I told her to leave today , or you would visit her again .」
TOMÀS:「Good . You 've served me well , Miguel . I 'll always remember . I 'll make sure your family remembers , too .」
MIGUEL:「My family ?」
TOMÀS:「Well , you understand you ca n't serve me while you still live .」
MIGUEL:「My Lord , please !」
TOMÀS:「It 's not " My Lord " anymore . It 's " Your Majesty , " because , thanks to you , I 'm going to be a King .」
narration:Tomás draws an arrow and points it in Miguel 's direction , only to be interrupted by Bash and Francis
FRANCIS:「No ! Run , Miguel !」
narration:Tomás decides to send the arrow toward Francis , before changing his mind and shooting Miguel in the back as he tries to flee . The arrow pierces his skin , causing him to fall facefirst onto the ground . He then reloads , but before he can , Bash pulls a sword on him , aiming at his throat
FRANCIS ( to Bash ):「Do n't kill him . We need his confession .」
BASH:「I 'm trying very hard not to .」
narration:Francis rushes over to an injured Miguel , trying to help him
FRANCIS:「Miguel ! You 're alive . Do n't worry , we can get this arrow out .」
MIGUEL ( nodding toward Tomás ):「I 'm afraid of him .」
narration:With that , Tomás pushes the sword away from Bash and they begin fighting with their swords . Meanwhile , Francis aims an arrow Tomás ' way , but he has difficultes pinning down a moving target . Tomás manages to knock the sword from Bash 's hands , knocking him onto the ground . As he goes to kill him , Francis rushes over and they begin fighting
TOMÀS ( to Francis ):「You 're going to lose . You never learned how to take , like a b*st*rd learns . Take a crown , take a woman , take a life !」
narration:Tomás pushes Francis into a tree and aims an arrow at him , but before he can send it spiraling toward Francis , Bash gets up and attacks him . Francis eventually holds a knife against his throat
TOMÀS:「You ca n't do it ! If you kill me , you 'll have war . But if you let me go with Mary , you 'll have peace .」
FRANCIS:「When they take off your head , I 'll remember the men you killed . And Mary .」
narration:Tomás goes to stab Francis , but before he can , Francis stabs him in the heart -- killing him

FRANCIS ( to Bash ):「Can you ride ? We need to get back before they execute Simon .」
BASH:「Killing is n't supposed to be easy . If your hands were n't shaking , you 'd be him .」
ACT 6:「CASTLE」
narration:Back at the ball , Mary and her ladies wait anxiously on Francis and Bash 's return , as the spy will soon be excuted without proof that he is innocent
AYLEE ( noticing that the King , Queen and their executioner have arrived ):「What 's going on ?」
LOLA:「It 's time for Simon 's head to come off .」
AYLEE:「Where 's Mary ?」
LOLA:「Where 's Francis and Bash ?」
KENNA:「They 're going to be too late .」
narration:Kenna looks around the room and quietly leaves the rest of her friends to go speak with the King
KENNA:「Your Grace . I 'm begging you , please wait for your sons to return . They think they can prove Simon innocent .」
KING HENRY:「So I 've been told . But if I let justice wait for every last effort to prove a man innocent , there 'd be no justice .」
KENNA:「Is that what the Queen says ?」
KING HENRY:「No . The Queen says waiting makes me look weak , like less of a King . And she says it to everyone .」
KENNA:「If anything , I think it makes you look more like a King . Wise ; and fair ; and strong -- a King we can believe in .」
KING HENRY ( noticing that Kenna put on an overcoat ):「You finally covered yourself up . I could n't think straight , seeing you before .」
KENNA:「I hope that thinking straight helps you make the right choice , and wait .」
KING HENRY:「Before . When you said your heart did n't have to wait ... that was brave . Most people ; especially here , they keep their hearts hidden .」
KENNA:「Foolish , is more like it , but thank you . If we do leave tomorrow , I do n't mind you knowing that I 'll think of you .」
narration:Kenna goes to leave , but the King continues talking
KING HENRY:「Maybe Maybe foolish is something else . Maybe foolish is Diane endlessly shopping in Paris , leaving your King with no one to share his burdens . Maybe foolish is the Queen endlessly undermining your King 's authority . Maybe foolish is not baring one 's heart .」
KENNA:「What are you saying ?」
KING HENRY:「I want you to stay . Whatever that means for Diane or Catherine . I want you , kenna .」
narration:Suddenly , Bash and Francis arrive dragging the body of Tomás with them
FRANCIS:「Make way ! This is your spy . We have witnesses .」
narration:Mary enters with Miguel and Judith
MARY:「Two of them .」

narration:Simon exhales a sigh of relief upon realizing that his life has been spared
 LATER ON :
 After the earlier events with Tomás , the King and Queen attempt to make things right with Simon and his country
KING HENRY:「Lord Westbrook , are you pleased that England has made you their new envoy to Portugal ?」
FRANCIS ( whispering to Bash ):「He 's pleased Portugal paid him a King 's ransom to stay quiet about what Tomás did to him .」
SIMON:「Well , with respect , I 'm pleased to be leaving here alive , Majesty .」
Queen Catherine:「Please thank Portugal 's King for the sacrifice of his son Tomas , who gave his life to protect our son from a stag 's horns while hunting .」

narration:After leaving the castle , Mary and Bash are being chased by the King 's guards through the woods on horseback . Bash leads them to a clearing in the woods
BASH:「This way , Mary , quick .」
narration:That clearing leads off the side of a cliff facing a large body of water
BASH:「We 're trapped . There 's no way around .」
MARY:「We have to go back . The king 's guards ...」
BASH:「Will intercept us . We 'll never outrun them in the woods anyway .」
MARY:「We 'll be captured and dragged back to French court . The king wants England ; he wo n't give up . If we 're found ...」
narration:The king 's men are catching up to them quickly . The hooves of the horses sound like they have arrived
BASH:「Get down , quickly . I 'm going to get you back to Scotland .」
MARY:「How ? GUARD ' ( alerting ' ' the other men ' to their location )」
narration:Bash starts taking off his heavy armor and sword
MARY:「Bash , what are you doing ?」
BASH:「Just trust me . Can you swim ? This is the only way out .」
MARY:「Are you mad ? We 'll never survive it .」
BASH:「You can do this .」
GUARD:「Stop ! In the name of the king ! Seize them !」
narration:Mary and Bash told hands and jump off the cliff , into the water
 BACK AT THE CASTLE :
GUARD:「We 've checked every outbound ship from Dunkirk to Bayeux , Your Majesty . The Scottish Queen and your son must still be in France , but ...」
KING HENRY:「They did n't just disappear . Bash has many talents , but magic is n't one of them . Find them ! Go .」
Queen Catherine:「They 've been gone for more than a week . You 'll never find them . Francis is back from his own search . I tell him it 's pointless , they 're long gone , but he persists .」

KING HENRY:「What did you expect ? Mary 's his fiancée . They were hours from being we d .」
Queen Catherine:「... Until she rode off with his brother . I 'd call that engagement off .」
KING HENRY:「What I 'd like to know is why .」
Queen Catherine:「She was probably involved with him for months .」
KING HENRY:「What is it about her marriage to our son that strikes such fear in your black heart ? The truth , Catherine , for once .」
Queen Catherine:「Mary is dangerous because she 's in danger . Because the English hate her , and they always will , especially if she lays claim to their throne , as you insist . I believe she brings destruction , which will reach our lands and our hearts .」
KING HENRY:「This is n't your decision , and if I find out her departure is your doing in any way , I 'll have grounds to execute you .」
Queen Catherine:「I grow weary of your threats .」
KING HENRY:「I grew weary of you a decade ago . All I need is cause to be rid of you . Perhaps this time , you 've given it to me . IN FRANCIS ' CHAMBERS :」

Queen Catherine:「You ca n't do this . Take off for days at a time on your own ?」
FRANCIS:「I had guards with me , guards that I can trust -- Guards that do n't answer to you . We 're only back because there was a sighting of a girl alleged to be Mary in a village nearby . A girl who appeared to be barely ten .」
narration:QUEEN
CATHERINE:「Well , few people in France have set eyes on Mary . She has money . She can buy passage , as well as silence . She has Bash to navigate for them . You wo n't find them , and why would you want to ?」
FRANCIS:「Because I want to know why she left .」
Queen Catherine:「Well , did n't you ask her ?」
FRANCIS:「She said that she could n't trust me to put her interests before France .」
Queen Catherine:「And she 's right . And I know , because you 'll be an extraordinary king .」
FRANCIS:「She made an excuse . It 's not why she left , I know it .」
Queen Catherine:「Then she 's a liar . Why would you want her ?」
FRANCIS:「Because I love her , despite everything that she 's done . And because I sense your hand in this .」

narration:AT AN INN :
 Mary and Bash have settled in for the night to rest up and dry their clothing
MARY:「I do n't think the innkeeper believed our story .」
BASH:「That we were attacked by bandits ?」
MARY:「Honest people do n't ride through the woods .」
BASH:「Honest , foolish people do .」
MARY:「Do you think that you 're foolish for helping me ?」
BASH:「I only meant that the woods are dangerous . Not as dangerous as court , as it turns out .」
narration:Both of them huddle beside the lit fireplace , soaking up some of its warmth
MARY:「Do you really think that Queen Catherine knew about your mother 's plot to have you legitimized ?」
BASH:「Yes . She used the information to blackmail my mother into leaving court . My mother never should have done this behind my father 's back .」
MARY:「And behind yours . You never asked to rule France . This was never what you wanted .」
BASH:「Try convincing anyone of that .」
MARY:「They 're going to think the worst of us , you know .」
BASH:「I 'm sure Francis already does .」
narration:Mary pulls out a blanket and shakes it loose
BASH:「I 'll find some horses tomorrow . We 'll get a boat from Calais and put this all behind us . Now , get undressed .」
narration:Bash pulls off his boots and sits them on the ground
MARY:「What ?」
BASH:「You 'll want dry clothes . We have a long day tomorrow .」
MARY:「All right then . Turn around .」
BASH:「For the entire night ?」
narration:Bash finds this comical , but he does it anyway
BASH:「There 's not a thing left in your bag that is n't soaked . Let it dry .」
( Mary relunctantly starts untying her clothing , while Bash peeks from behind . OFFSCREEN VOICE ( knocking at the door ):「Innkeeper . Brought you some fresh linen .」
BASH:「Hide . Quickly . Our innkeeper lacked grace , but he was n't wearing heavy boots .」
narration:Mary scurries under the table right before the person knocking at the door barges in
GUARD 1:「Well , if it is n't the b*st*rd son of France . Those people you paid off to keep their silence , we paid them more . Where 's the Queen ?」
BASH:「I dropped her off in Calais . She 's halfway across the Channel in a four - masted galleon .」
GUARD 2:「Without her clothes ? Did they tie her to the bow like a figurehead ?」
narration:Several more men barge into the room . They stab a knife into the table and subdue bash , slamming his head against the table
GUARD 1:「The king wants you back alive , but he said nothing of your fingers . Last chance .」
narration:Bash closes his eyes and says nothing

MARY ( emerging from her hiding spot ):「Stop ! I 'm right here . Unhand him . This man is under my protection .」
GUARD 2:「Apologies , Your Grace , but this man is a French subject , not Scottish , - and he 's a criminal .」
MARY:「And what crime has he committed beyond ensuring my safety ?」
GUARD 2:「Were n't you engaged to his brother ? I suppose that 's why I heard the word " treason " bandied about . All I know is the king wants his son back at court .」
narration:The men start to drag him off
MARY:「I can help .」
BASH:「No .」
MARY:「I 'll explain why you came with me . I 'll make Henry understand .」
BASH:「And Francis ? He wo n't let you leave twice .」
MARY:「I jumped off a cliff with you and I survived . This time , let me take the lead .」
narration:Mary and Bash are both back at court . Bash is in cuffs
GUARD:「The king wants him taken to the dungeon .」
BASH:「I 'll be fine . Be strong . You have to .」
FRANCIS ( yelling from across the room ):「Mary !」
narration:He slowly comes up to her , unsure of what to say
FRANCIS:「Is my brother hurt ?」
MARY:「Not yet . They 're locking him up .」
FRANCIS:「And you ... are you all right ? I suppose you wondered if you 'd ever see me again .」
MARY:「Yes .」
FRANCIS:「I knew I 'd see you . If I had n't found you , if the guards did n't , I would have come to Scotland .」
narration:He steps closer to her , but she backs away
MARY:「Francis , please , do n't . Nothing has changed .」
FRANCIS:「Everything 's changed . We woke up at sunrise in each other 's arms and I promised to stand by you forever , against anyone , even my father . And by sundown , you 'd run off with my brother ...」
MARY:「This is n't Bash 's fault .」
FRANCIS:「No , you say it 's about France bullying you into claiming the throne of England , or because my loyalties might lie to my nation and not to you . But I swore myself to you , and I know you believed me . Tell me what happened .」
MARY:「My friend died . My heart broke .」
FRANCIS:「Why did you leave ? Explain to me how Aylee 's death made you decide you could n't marry me . Give me an honest answer . I deserve that . I was prepared to give everything to you .」
MARY:「Including your life ... I know that , and I 'm sorry , but I ca n't marry you .」
GUARD:「The king requests your presence in the throne room .」
narration:Francis and Mary both head that way , but Francis is stopped

GUARD:「Begging your pardon , Your Grace , he just wants Queen Mary .」
narration:IN THE THRONE ROOM :
 King Henry and Queen Catherine sit on their thrones , with a room full of spectators
Queen Catherine:「The guards say you chose to return .」
MARY:「I am here on Sebastian 's behalf . And to make peace between our nations , as it seems there is some ill will in the wake of my decision not to marry your son , Francis . I am hoping you can help me with this .」
KING HENRY:「I 'll help you make peace . Marry Francis , as we 'd agreed . Lay claim to England . The story for your abrupt departure is this」
MARY:「No .」
KING HENRY:「No ? You are here at your mother 's , at Scotland 's , bidding . Your wedding is a treaty of nations .」
Queen Catherine:「Women do n't often say no , to Henry . When they do he thinks it 's a game . It usually is . But Mary is n't your usual girl . She is Scotland . She is its queen .」
KING HENRY:「All right then . Let 's negotiate . As leaders . Shall we start with your desire to protect Bash ? You 're fond of him , are n't you ?」

MARY:「Are n't you ? He 's your son . He was protecting me . Bash did nothing wrong .」
KING HENRY:「And you , you shared a bed with him . There are witnesses . MARY
 In Scotland ?」
MARY:「They will believe their Queen .」
KING HENRY:「A queen with blood on her hands who let her lover die ? Sebastian ran off with the future king 's fiancée . Destroying an alliance between our countries .」
MARY:「Do n't do this .」
KING HENRY:「You want to be treated like a ruler ? Someone who can say no ? Do you need lives at stake to take this seriously ?」
Queen Catherine:「Henry , you would n't .」
KING HENRY:「You 'll marry my son , Francis and accept our nation 's support , as you and your new husband , lay claim to England . Or I will execute my son , my subject Bash , for the treason of costing me England . You can watch him bleed to death on your wedding altar .」
narration:IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 Her servants are gathered around attending to her dress
Queen Catherine:「Leave us . Now .」
narration:The room clears out
Queen Catherine:「You should never have come back here .」

MARY:「I had no choice . Bash was accused of treason . I could n't let him suffer on his own .」
Queen Catherine:「I was afraid something like this might happen .」
MARY:「Find a way to convince King Henry that I wo n't back down , before he carries through with his threat .」
Queen Catherine:「Killing Bash ? ! I ca n't believe he would do it .」
MARY:「I wo n't take that chance .」
Queen Catherine:「Well , then lie . Say that you and Bash are already married .」
MARY:「How ?」
Queen Catherine:「You grabbed a priest on the road . You said your vows in a cowshed . Even Henry ca n't override a union sanctified by God .」
MARY:「No , but he can kill Bash in anger on hearing it .」
Queen Catherine:「Do you have any other ideas ?」
MARY:「I 've sent word to my mother . In truth , I can not believe that she and her advisors would support a claim on England at this time .」
Queen Catherine:「Henry 's already been corresponding with your mother ... Once he learned that the English Queen was dying .」
MARY:「She wants me to do it . Scotland wants me on the throne of England . They know it 's a risk ;」

Queen Catherine:「Less so , with Francis at your side .」
MARY:「They want me to we d the next King of France without delay . So , there is no other option . I must tell Francis of the prophecy .」
Queen Catherine:「You must find another way . Francis will reject the prophecy as superstition . And he will convince you to marry him . You know I am right !」
MARY:「I will explain to him why I believe Nostradamus 's visions .」
Queen Catherine:「Giving him arguments he can talk you out of with reason and logic . And he will . Because the fact that Nostradamus can see the death of the man you love , is not something that you want to believe either .」
MARY:「But I do believe it .」
Queen Catherine:「You wo n't when he 's done with you , because Francis is reasonable in all things , but he is relentless in his love for you . If you tell Francis , he will wear you down , and he is as good as dead .」
MARY:「And if I do nothing , Bash will die .」
narration:IN THE DUNGEON :
 Nostradamus sits at his workshop , creating a doll to give to Clarissa . After killing Aylee , Nostradamus locked her up in his dungeon to keep her from doing something foolish

NOSTRADAMUS:「You look pathetic but I feel your hatred . You do n't even have the decency to feign remorse for killing that girl .」
CLARISSA:「I did it to save Mary .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「You killed Aylee to fulfill my vision .」
CLARISSA:「The Queen was planning to kill her .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「So , you 've said . And you 're right , Catherine would have . Kings and queens do that . To save another , to save themselves , when it suits them , they play God . Monsters like you should not . Did you not enjoy your freedom ? ! You could go about the castle as you wished . All I asked , was that you stay out of sight」
narration:Clarissa cries as he leaves . She then picks up the doll he threw on the ground and rips it apart
 IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 She sits basked in the sunlight that pours through the window , thinking deeply about what to do about Francis and the prophecy until she is interrupted
FRANCIS:「Mary .」
MARY:「Thank you for coming .」
FRANCIS:「Is this about Bash ? My father just told me that he 'll kill him if you do n't marry me . And still you refuse ?」
MARY:「Yes .」
FRANCIS:「I 'm sorry . This is insane . How far will you go to destroy us ?」
MARY:「But it will destroy you otherwise .」
FRANCIS:「What ?」
MARY:「Please , hear me out . I want to explain myself . I want you to understand why I left you . It was n't for lack of love , or joy , or trust in you . It was because I could n't bear the thought of losing you .」
FRANCIS:「That makes no sense .」
MARY:「Nostradamus had a vision -- Of your death , brought about by me if we we d .」
FRANCIS:「You left me over a prophecy ?」
MARY:「One that I believe . I could n't take the risk of being wrong !」
FRANCIS:「This is madness .」
MARY:「I know , I thought so too . I did n't believe it , I did n't want to , but , I knew that Nostradamus 's visions had weight , even before he predicted Aylee 's death .」
FRANCIS:「Her fall ?」
MARY:「Hours before it happened .」
FRANCIS:「When the king finds out ... No , you ca n't tell him ! He will burn Nostradamus alive , for heresy , or treason -- both charges apply , not to mention ...
 My mother . She was behind this as well .」
MARY:「All her crimes against me were because she loves you . Does she deserve to burn for that ? She would do anything for you . And I would , too . I will not be the cause of your death .」
FRANCIS:「And Bash ? Shall he die in my stead ?」
MARY:「No , of course not .」

FRANCIS:「Because my father is determined . You will we d the next King of France , or he 'll lose any chance of England . Mary you can not let superstition , or fear , rule your life . You must be the ruler ... Taking charge of your own destiny . Marry me . Now , before my mother or Nostradamus can poison you with fear , pressure you ...」
MARY:「You are pressuring me .」
FRANCIS:「Ah , because I am right . And my mother is wrong to believe in this nonsense !」
MARY:「She was right to believe . Aylee is dead . I believe !」
FRANCIS:「I 'll talk to Nostradamus . He 'll recant . I 'll make my mother see things sensibly . I 'll take the risk . This is my life , my risk . Once you get past the grief of Aylee 's death , you 'll see .」
MARY:「Your mother was right , you are relentless .」
FRANCIS:「When it comes to us , yes .」
MARY:「But I ca n't do this . I am begging you , please stop .」
FRANCIS:「I wo n't . Ever .」
MARY:「Then I will .」
narration:IN THE THRONE ROOM :
KING HENRY:「I assume you 've asked for this meeting because you 've made your decision . Will you marry Francis ? Or will you be forced to watch Bash 's execution ?」
MARY:「Neither .」
narration:The room erupts in a gasp
KING HENRY:「What 's this ?」
MARY:「I have a third option . One I think you would be most interested in . I will stake my claim on England and I will marry your son . But not Francis」
narration:The King and Queen have taken Mary off into a private room away from all of the prying eyes
KING HENRY:「Explain yourself .」
MARY:「You want England . I want something in return .」
KING HENRY:「You are talking about changing the line of succession of France .」
Queen Catherine:「Bash as king ... this is laughable .」

MARY:「Bastards are being legitimized all over Europe . I believe the Vatican will favor this arrangement . KING HENRY
 You said yourself , they want England as badly as you do . They will do anything to keep it from falling into the hands of the Protestants .」
Queen Catherine:「You were against this claim before .」
MARY:「That was before I knew my mother 's wishes . And how much pressure her advisors were putting her under . It seems I will be going off to England no matter what I think , but only with Bash at my side .」
KING HENRY:「So I 'll make him a duke , or an earl .」
Queen Catherine:「Yes . MARY」
KING HENRY:「There 'd be civil unrest . The nobles may reject it . It makes our country appear unstable . And I 'd have to convince the Pope to annul our marriage .」
narration:Catherine is clearly unpleased with this idea
KING HENRY:「Are you not acquainted with my very determined wife ?」
MARY:「Perhaps your wife will agree . Because at her core , she is more selfless than you think .」
KING HENRY:「You think she gives a damn about France controlling England when she is no longer queen ?」

MARY:「It 's up to the Queen to decide her priorities . I 've given your majesties much to consider . I will take my leave .」
narration:Mary exits , leaving the King and Queen to fight
Queen Catherine:「You 're not seriously considering this ? What she proposes would cost me everything ... My marriage , my crown , the legacy of our children , your sons ...」
KING HENRY:「Yes ... They are all considerations .」
Queen Catherine:「Those bitches !」
KING HENRY:「Who ?」
Queen Catherine:「Mary , her friends , that parasite Diane , the lot of them !」
KING HENRY:「My mistress Diane ? What does she have to do with this ?」
Queen Catherine:「You do n't seriously think that Mary came up with legitimization all by herself . Bash must have told her . Diane has been working on this behind your back for months .」
KING HENRY:「Do you have proof of this ?」
Queen Catherine:「Well , why do n't you ask Kenna , your other mistress ? She told me and as a result , I blackmailed Diane and I , , sent her off to Paris .」
KING HENRY:「You admit this deceit ?」

Queen Catherine:「You would have found out anyway , from Bash , before you took off his head ! I suspect that 's the real reason why he fled the castle . He was afraid of your reaction .」
KING HENRY:「So much for the great love story of Mary and Bash . But if he left out of fear , what was her reason ?」
Queen Catherine:「I have no idea , but she certainly made a mess of things now , has n't she ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 After her talk with the King and Queen , Mary retires to her chambers to talk to her ladies about what transpired when she was gone
LOLA:「In truth , Catherine 's been relatively kind to us . She was arranging our passage for next week .」
GREER:「Now you 're back and marrying Bash .」
MARY:「If Henry makes him the next king . It was the only way I could save Bash and Francis , and do as I was bid by my mother , as is my duty .」
KENNA:「What about me ? For Bash to become legitimized , Henry must marry Diane and she 'll be back at court as queen .」
MARY:「If the plan works , yes . I know this must be painful for you . You have feelings for the king .」

KENNA:「Painful ? You have no idea , any of you !」
narration:All of the girls look at her , deducing that she was upset at more than just the possibility of Dianne being Queen
KENNA:「I think Diane was behind Aylee 's death .」
LOLA:「Kenna , what are you saying ?」
KENNA:「Aylee fell , but I think she was poisoned first .」
LOLA:「What makes you think such a thing ?」
KENNA:「There was a cup shattered at the base of the stairs . A cup that was delivered to me . I saw a cat drinking the spilled contents . Not long after I found the animal dead in the corner .」
MARY:「Why did n't you tell any of us about your suspicions ?」
KENNA:「You were already dealing with so much and then you were gone . What could I , any of us , done about it in your absence ? Who would stand to gain by my death ? Diane , certainly . But also Catherine . What better way to warn you of Nostradamus 's visions , than by fulfilling his latest prophecy ?」
LOLA:「That one among us would die ?」
KENNA:「And one of us did .」
MARY:「There was other proof of Nostradamus 's power .」
KENNA:「Yes but it was Aylee 's death that convinced you that what he predicted for Francis would come true .」
LOLA:「Did Catherine know of this last prophecy ? Was she aware of it ?」
MARY:「She 'd never admit to it , but I 'm getting better at discerning when she 's lying .」
narration:IN CATHERINE 'S CHAMBERS :
 Mary goes to confront the Queen about Kenna 's suspicions in regard to Aylee 's death
QUEEN CATHERINE ( off - screen ):「And I 'm not pleased with her .」
narration:Without knocking , Mary storms into the room
MARY:「Did you poison Aylee ? Yes or no ?」
Queen Catherine:「Leave us .」

narration:When the room clears out , Catherine lets Mary know of her displeasure
Queen Catherine:「How dare you burst in here after the stunt you 've just pulled .」
MARY:「Give me your answer .」
Queen Catherine:「Of course not . I had nothing but fondness for Aylee .」
MARY:「And Kenna ? A cup was delivered to her bedside that ended up in Aylee 's hands .」
Queen Catherine:「Your friend Kenna , she came to me , she 'd found out about Diane 's plot to have Bash legitimized .」
MARY:「Bash told me , but I was n't aware that Kenna knew .」
Queen Catherine:「I saw an opportunity to get rid of them both . I told Diane about Kenna 's scheming and I ... I gifted her some poison . I suppose I was testing her , to see if she 'd actually try to poison Kenna before leaving the castle . And clearly , she tried .」
MARY:「So , it was your poison . Delivered at Diane 's hands and not yours ?」
Queen Catherine:「Delivered to the wrong girl . You must believe me . Why would I tell you this otherwise ? What reason would I have to kill Aylee ?」

MARY:「To make me believe Nostradamus 's prophecies . He had a vision of one of my ladies dying .」
Queen Catherine:「He never told me . He takes no comfort in the horrors he sees . And he knows that I would probably have killed one of your ladies trying to convince you . I 'm telling you the truth .. On my immortal soul . There 's still time to fix this . Leave for Scotland . I have connections , I can ensure you find another suitable match .」
MARY:「Not in time .」
Queen Catherine:「No , this ca n't be happening . You end up with a King , and three kingdoms under your rule , and I lose everything ? !」
MARY:「I am losing the man that I love . I am saving your son ! I have made my sacrifice ! And now this is your turn . I must talk to Francis and tell him of my proposal to we d Bash before somebody else does .」
Queen Catherine:「I might have already mentioned it .」
narration:Mary storms off to find Francis . First , she visits his room
MARY:「Francis ?」
narration:Francis is not in his chambers , so she looks for him elsewhere . Meanwhile , Francis goes to visit Bash in the dungeon
BASH:「Francis .」

narration:Francis immediately punches Bash in the face and starts beating him throughout the room
FRANCIS:「Get up .」
BASH:「I can explain .」
FRANCIS:「Why did you steal Mary ? !」
BASH:「I was trying to help her .」
FRANCIS:「You took advantage of her fears , and this family 's trust .」
narration:Francis is n't listening to Bash at all . He continues to beat him , despite Bash not fighting back
MARY ( rushing into the room to help Bash and stop Francis from killing him ) Francis , stop ! FRANCIS ( to Bash ):「How long have you hated me ?」
BASH:「I was trying to save your life .」
MARY:「Stop ! Stop ! Francis , stop ! Stop !」
narration:Mary puts herself in between Francis and Bash
MARY:「This is n't Bash 's fault ! He only knew about the prophecy . The only thing we 've done is try to save you . I 'm the one who proposed marrying him . I proposed that he be the new heir to the throne .」
BASH:「You proposed what ?」
MARY:「I 'm sorry .」
FRANCIS:「You are setting the course of nations . Asking the Pope to say that this is God 's will ! Taking my family 's inheritance , from me , my mother , my brothers . And I 'm supposed to accept this . You are throwing away everything we had for superstition ! Nostradamus knows nothing . You know that I love you . If you think that , because in your minds , you 're saving me , that I will forgive you for this , you 're wrong .」
narration:Francis angrily leaves , leaving Mary in tears
MARY:「Are you all right ?」
BASH:「When were you planning to tell me ? Before or after my coronation ? !」
MARY:「Please do n't be angry .」
BASH:「I never wanted my brother 's crown . No matter my mother 's plans .」
MARY:「But will you take it , to save his life ? BASH」
narration:IN NOSTRADAMUS ' CHAMBERS :
Queen Catherine:「Why did n't you tell me about your visions of Mary 's friends ?」

NOSTRADAMUS:「If I had , you 've had killed one of them , no ? To make Mary believe ?」
Queen Catherine:「Well , that was my point to Mary , exactly . It 's tragic , about Aylee .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「At least her death will do some good , if it saves Francis .」
Queen Catherine:「But now Mary is so convinced of your power , that she 's ready to upset the line of succession . In Mary 's mind , this is the only way . Well , of course there are others .」
narration:Nostradamus picks up on the insinuation
NOSTRADAMUS:「Options to keep you in power .」
Queen Catherine:「Without power , I am vulnerable . And so are my children . When Henry dies , and Bash becomes king , my sons become targets . They 'll threaten Sebastian 's rule , as some will say they belong on the throne , one by one , in rightful succession . No , Mary 's plan will not do . She and Bash must be stopped in a manner that leaves no trace .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「Is there no other way ?」
Queen Catherine:「Can you suggest one ?」
narration:Nostradamus says nothing . So Catherine continues giving direction

Queen Catherine:「Hire a scribe , leave a note in Mary 's hand , a good - bye to her friends , she would do that if she and Bash were making an escape . Find a jailer who 'll say that she bribed him . Pay him well , and then kill him , too . Take all the bodies to the forest and bury them deep so that when the rains come and the animals dig , their skulls are not found .」
narration:The Queen summons a guard , after giving her instructions , he leaves
 ELSEWHERE IN THE CASTLE :
 Henry has arranged a secret meeting between himself , Mary and Bash ; thus explaining her absence . Bash was waiting when she arrived
KING HENRY:「Ah , Mary , you 're safe . No one followed you , or knows you 're here , not even your ladies ?」
MARY:「No , no one knows .」
KING HENRY:「You 've taught me something , Mary . God has a sense of humor . When I heard the Vatican 's support of your claim to the English throne , I thought , " A chance this perfect must be crafted by God . " But now , I see God 's mocking me . I mean , how else do you explain that on the verge of uniting England , Scotland and France , I 'd be here , held hostage by the whims of a teenaged girl ?」

MARY:「It 's not a whim . I am deadly serious .」
KING HENRY:「You were never groomed to be king . Your recent actions have shown me that you are not prepared for power .」
BASH:「And yet , here we are .」
KING HENRY:「I 'll agree to your terms . Let God mock the English for a change . MARY
 You 're serious ?
 Your ascent to the throne will not be official until the Pope agrees , which will not be easy . I 'll go to Rome , and do my best . I 've been a better father to you than Francis , but he 's my son , too , and your brother . You have betrayed him . I do n't know why , I do n't know if it 's love , or something else , but this will destroy him , unless he 's a stronger man than either of us knew . In which case , God have mercy on you .」
narration:The King holds up a glass and toasts to the two of them
KING HENRY:「To the future King and Queen of France , Scotland and England .」
narration:They all drink
MARY:「There is one other thing . What will we do about Catherine ? She wo n't give up her crown easily .」
KING HENRY:「I can handle my wife .」
narration:LATER :
 Catherine enters her room to find the guard hanging from a noose above her bed . Henry enters shortly after her
KING HENRY:「You 're next .」
narration:Henry grabs her by the arm and pulls her into the throne room , where Mary , Bash and Francis all stand
Queen Catherine:「No !」

KING HENRY:「It 's best if you remain standing .」
narration:Henry starts walking over to his throne
Queen Catherine:「Are you going to execute me yourself ?」
KING HENRY:「I 'm trying very hard not to kill you for the things you 've done .」
narration:He sits , while Catherine scoffs
Queen Catherine:「You 've had me followed ?」
KING HENRY:「I know how you behave when you 're cornered .」
Queen Catherine:「I will never agree to an annulment , no matter what fabrications you concoct to get you England .」
KING HENRY:「I want all agreed to this plan . When I die , Bash will be king . If he is survived by our children , the line of succession will revert to my sons by you .」
Queen Catherine:「Ah , well , it 's better than I hoped .」
KING HENRY:「Especially as you 're instantly planning Bash 's demise . He would have been next , after you sent an assassin to Mary 's chambers this very evening . Now you think you 'll simply pick Bash off , once my guard is down , or before they pop out an heir , and the throne will revert to Francis .」

Queen Catherine:「Are n't you ahead of me ? It 's as if we had one mind ...」
MARY:「Catherine , do n't . He 's thought of every angle .」
KING HENRY:「Mary 's right . Because I know your next plan is to kill me . To remove the largest obstacle and hasten things along . A stray arrow , a hunting accident .」
Queen Catherine:「I would n't dare .」
narration:Francis suddenly enters to give his two cents
FRANCIS:「Yes , you would . You 'd kill everyone in this room to get me on the throne . To protect me , in the hope that I would then protect you . But my first order of business , as King , would be to execute you if you were to harm anyone here . My brother , my father , Mary . This has to stop .」
narration:Finished with his mother , Francis walks over to Mary
FRANCIS:「I see a future for us quite clearly . We would be happy . I would give anything to spend my life , however long , at your side .」
MARY:「I know you would .」
FRANCIS:「But you see a future without me , and that 's the one you choose . MARY
 It 's your choice . You are so headstrong , so , so strong ...」

narration:Speaking to Bash
FRANCIS:「And you , my brother I envied you for so long , and look at us now . You have what 's mine , and I have your freedom . Well , I , I plan to take full advantage of it .」
narration:Francis turns and speaks to the whole room
FRANCIS:「Long may you reign .」
narration:IN MARY 'S CHAMBERS :
 Mary prepares herself for bed in her chambers , but the Queen wants to have a chat
SERVANT:「Your Grace , Her Majesty the Queen .」
MARY:「Wait .」
narration:Speaking to the guard
MARY:「Stay . And you , as well . Close the door」
narration:Both the guard and the servant stay in the room
Queen Catherine:「You 're arming yourself against me . Am I really that frightening ?」
MARY:「Am I really stupid enough to find out ? What do you want ?」
Queen Catherine:「You must be very pleased with yourself .」
MARY:「I take no joy in what this has cost you .」

Queen Catherine:「My life , not just my crown . The annulment wo n't be enough for Henry . To quiet the issues , the questions about his judgment , it 's best if I 'm gone . He will find some excuse to behead me .」
MARY:「Then leave France , disappear , and never return .」
Queen Catherine:「If only you had taken this advice .」
MARY:「I believe that King Henry will let you live if he gets what he wants . Grant him the annulment , and then go far from here and grant yourself a happy life .」
Queen Catherine:「Oh , Mary , do n't you know by now ? Happiness is the one thing we queens can never have . Sleep well , my dear .」
narration:THE NEXT DAY :
 As Catherine prepares to leave the castle , a group of people have gathered to bid her farewell
GREER:「Do we really have to be here ?」
MARY:「It 's the right thing to do .」
LOLA:「After everything she 's put you through ?」
narration:The Queen walks through two lines of subjects that have divided for her . In front of some of them , she stops and offers plesantries
LOLA:「I wonder where she 's going .」

GREER:「The official story is that she 's visiting her aunt , who is a nun .」
LOLA:「She 'll spend the rest of her life at a convent . I do n't believe it .」
MARY:「She 'll be safe there . King Henry would never dare reach for her .」
narration:Catherine finishes going through the crowd , before she speaks with Mary one final time
Queen Catherine:「Not much of a turnout when one loses power , is there ? Oh , and hustled out the back door to boot . It 's humiliating .」
MARY:「There is no shame in what you have done for your son .」
Queen Catherine:「A word of advice for the next Queen of France . Remember , no matter how many countries you rule , or palaces you own , power is always fleeting .」
narration:Catherine kisses Mary on the cheek and continues
Queen Catherine:「It can be taken away by the stroke of a pen or the blade of an axe .」
narration:The Queen turns around to leave . The doors are opened for her
 , but Henry and a group of men come in through an adjacent door
KING HENRY:「Leaving without saying good - bye to your king ?」
Queen Catherine:「I was afraid Your Majesty was too busy preparing false documents to send to the Vatican .」

KING HENRY:「Too busy thinking of you . Catherine , I 've realized something , and I ca n't let you go . In fact , I ca n't let you out of my sight . Your reach is long , your connection to wealth endless , and your mastery at poisons , ever evolving .」
Queen Catherine:「You 're holding me prisoner .」
KING HENRY:「Guarded day and night , or at least until I 'm back from Rome . Imprison her .」
narration:The guards take her into custody , but she still has a few choice words for the King
Queen Catherine:「Whore - monger .」

narration:IN CATHERINE 'S CHAMBERS :
 Clarissa enters Catherine 's empty chambers and looks about the room . She sits on the bed for a moment and then looks through a small wooden box that contains the names of each of Catherine 's children , with a lock of their hair . Before Clarissa can finish , two young lovers sneak into the room
GIRL ( laughing ):「Here we are」
narration:They kiss and make their way over to the bed , where they make love with most of their clothes off . Clarissa , wishing to remain out - of - sight , slinks into the corner , hiding between a wardrobe and the wall
 IN THE STABLES :
 Bash attends to one of the horses in the stable , grooming it and cleaning its fur . Bash , seeing Mary out of the corner of his eye , drops what he 's doing and goes to meet with Mary
BASH:「There you are . You missed our ride this morning .」
MARY:「I 'm sorry . I overslept .」
BASH:「I hope you were n't up all night worrying again .」
MARY:「It 's just the fact that we 've heard no news from the Vatican .」
BASH:「Will your worrying make the Pope choose to legitimize me any sooner ? The Vatican wil come around and when they do , you and I can finally be married . I promise .」
MARY:「That 's not all I 'm worried about . Your half brothers , Charles and Henry , I see their sad faces around the castle and I realize how hard this must be for them .」
BASH:「Yes . It 's awful . I know .」
MARY:「There 's a frost fair in the village this morning . I want to take them , just us three -- just something special to take their minds off their troubles」
narration:Bash smiles lovingly at Mary
BASH:「You are so good . So truly good .」
narration:He pulls her to him tightly and kisses her tenderly
 Mary , remaining true to her word , takes the boys to the festival . They are accompanied by many castle guards , who lead them in a horse - drawn carriage
PRINCE CHARLES:「Will there be ice - skating ?」
MARY:「Yes and sleigh - rides and spiced candy and puppet plays . All of the boys and girls from the village will be there !」
PRINCE CHARLES:「Mother and father do n't like us to play with regular children . I wish mother could be there .」
MARY:「I know .」
PRINCE CHARLES:「Will we see her before she dies ?」
MARY:「Do n't worry about that now . Your mother wants you to be happy . She 'll be happier knowing you had a lovely day !」
narration:Offscreen , voices can be heard instructing people passing by to back off
GUARD:「Get back ! All of you !」
PASSERBY:「LOOK ! It 's the Medici princes !」
narration:The crowd becomes angry and starts latching on to the side of the carriage , shaking it violently
PASSERBY:「This is for Queen Catherine and her lies !」

MARY ( to the boys ):「Get down ! Hide .」
narration:Both boys crawl under their seat , put their hands over their heads and scream
 AT THE CASTLE :
 After the young couple finished up , the girl notices one of Catherine 's possessions has been disturbed . She goes to inspect the situation and she hears a whisper
CLARISSA:「HEY GIRL」
narration:She then begins searching the room for the voice that just called out to her
GIRL:「Show yourself ! I wo n't take the blame if you 've stolen something from the queen .」
narration:She goes to the window to look behind the curtain . As she pulls it back , Clarissa pops out and attacks her , putting her into a chokehold until she snaps her neck . Dead , the girl slinks to the ground
 IN THE DUNGEON :
 Mary goes to meet with the Queen to tell her what had happened earlier that morning
Queen Catherine:「Where are my boys now ?」
MARY:「Bash is with them .」
Queen Catherine:「I warned you of the unrest that would result in changing the line of succession . Once the Vatican legitimizes Bash , Henry will take off my head . Those boys will be orphans .」
MARY:「They 'll still have their father .」

Queen Catherine:「Hahaha . How much attention do you think they 'll get from him as he cavorts with his new bride , Diane ? And as for Bash , as soon as he takes power , he will face unrelenting pressure to do away with them .」
MARY:「I will not allow it . I will take care of them .」
Queen Catherine:「You ?」
MARY:「Bash as well . We will raise them as they are our own . Despite what you may think , I never intended to harm your family . I just wanted to save Francis .」
Queen Catherine:「I wish I could believe that .」
MARY:「and I want to help Clarissa too .」
Queen Catherine:「Clarissa ?」
MARY:「Yes . She is your daughter . We both know that . And she saved my life .」
Queen Catherine:「How do you intend on coaxing her out of the passages ?」
MARY:「I ordered a mask made ; to cover her deformity . It 's being delivered today and when the time is right , I 'll arrange for her to have chambers of her own .」
Queen Catherine:「You seriously intend to integrating her into society after a life in the shadows ; living like vermin ? That girl is broken . She is more animal than human . The greatest mercy would be to have her put down .」

MARY:「You do n't mean that . You would never want that for your own child .」
Queen Catherine:「I suppose I 'll have to get use to other people deciding what I want for my children . They 'll be out of my care very shortly when I 'm dead .」
narration:In the passage way , Clarissa watches as the boys play together in their chamber . She excitedly opens a silk - wrapped package Mary left her , revealing the mask . She puts it on and looks at her reflection in a jagged piece of mirror . Upon seeing her face , she smashes the glass on the ground and goes back to watching the boys play together . Then , she rips a huge section of hair out of her head , blood , skin and all and wraps it around the princes ' hair Catherine kept in her box of keepsakes
BASH:「What can I do to protect my younger brothers ? There must be a way to make them safe .」
LORD HUGO:「I marvel that you could have been brought up at court and still understand it so poorly . For a royal , there 's no such thing as safety .」
BASH:「I realize the notion of my being king disappoints you , Lord Hugo .」
LORD HUGO:「It did once . But not anymore .」
MARY:「You 've switched sides ?」

LORD HUGO:「I 'm head of the King 's Privy Council for two reasons」
BASH:「How lucky I am to have such steadfast support .」
LORD HUGO:「If steadfast is what you require , there 's only one way to achieve it . Factions need a flag to rally behind , and every young prince with a claim to the throne is another flag . But , if those flags were taken away , perhaps permanently ...」
MARY:「Are you suggesting killing the boys ? !」
LORD HUGO:「I would never presume to make such a suggestion . Those boys are the King 's own blood . You asked about safety . This morning 's attack was mild .」
BASH:「We are aware of that and share your concern .」
LORD HUGO:「There are plots being set on both sides , no doubt and with deadlier consequences . Sooner or later , blood will be spilled . It 's just a matter of whose . Yours and Mary 's , or another 's .」
LATER:「( Mary and Bash fight over with to do with Prince Henry and Prince Charles )」
BASH:「Lord Hugo 's right ... my brothers need to be dealt with .」
MARY:「" Dealt with ? " What are you saying ?」
BASH:「Send them away from France .」
MARY:「I was sent to a nunnery at six . It did n't stop the English from making attempts on my life .」
BASH:「You 've had far more attempts against your life here .」
MARY:「You were n't there this morning . Those boys need our protection and I promised Catherine I would keep them safe . We should keep them here with us .」
BASH:「And teach them to be constantly afraid ? Always on the lookout for the next attack ? I wo n't have them grow up to fear their own shadows .」
MARY:「At least they 'll have a chance of a normal childhood .」
BASH:「" Normal ? " At court ? This is absurd . You feel guilty for taking away what they had , so you want to keep them around , never mind what their lives might be like ...」
MARY:「And you feel guilty because they remind you of Francis , so you want to get them out of sight .」
BASH:「Is that really what you think ?」
MARY:「It does n't matter . I forbid you from sending them away .」
BASH:「You forbid it ? How is this your decision ?」
MARY:「I am the queen who 's going to give your father the legacy of conquering England . Who do you think he 's going to side with ?」
BASH:「Very well . I 'll go double the guard around the boys . Unless that means I do n't love them enough .」
narration:IN A DINGY TAVERN IN PARIS :
 Lola enters a building where many people are congregating . Many are having s*x out in the open , some are gambling , others sit around drinking
FREDRICK:「Lola ?」
LOLA:「Fredrick !」
narration:She embraces him tightly and notices a few bruises on his face

LOLA:「Are you all right ? Have they mistreated you ?」
FREDRICK:「I 'm fine , As long as you brought the ...」
LOLA ( interrupting him in a whisper ):「I brought the money .」
FREDRICK:「Thank God . Sorry you had to come all the way . You would n't believe the string of bad luck I 've had at the tables .」
LOLA:「Let 's just get you out of here . To whom do you owe the money ?」
narration:Before he can give her a name , a stranger appears from behind her and announces himself
' MAURICE ':「Maurice Bisset .」
LOLA:「Please excuse the trouble my brother has caused . ( handing him a satchal full of coins ) Here 's the sum he owes , plus interest .」
MAURICE:「How lucky you are to have such a lovely sister willing to go to such lengths to secure your release .」
LOLA:「Shall we ?」
narration:They go to leave , but another gentleman blocks their exit - way
MAURICE:「Unfortunately , this debt is more complicated .」
LOLA:「What do you mean ?」
MAURICE:「In addition to lying about his means , your brother attempted to cheat at my tables , a very serious breach of house rules .」
LOLA:「Perhaps an additional sum would help smooth things over ?」
MAURICE:「Such a grave crime requires more than money to repay it , do n't you think ?」
LOLA:「What are you suggesting ?」
MAURICE:「I admire the passion you have for your brother . Perhaps you would consider sharing some of that passion with me ?」
narration:BACK AT COURT :
 Nostradamus arrives to chat with Queen Catherine , who is still under guard .
NOSTRADAMUS ( to the guard ):「I need to see the prisoner .」
GUARD:「And what is this that you 're bringing ?」
NOSTRADAMUS:「A Bible . So she can make peace with her maker before her execution .」
narration:The guard takes the book from him and flips through the pages from front to back
NOSTRADAMUS:「If you 're looking for a weapon , some say there 's none greater than the Scriptures themselves .」
narration:The guard shoves the book back into his hands and opens the door , allowing him to speak with the Queen
QUEEN CATHERINE ( upon seeing Nostradamus ):「Oh , good . More sanctimonious talk from my self - appointed redeemer .」
NOSTRADAMUS:「King Henry 's actions may not have been fair , but it does n't change the results . You must seek absolution for your sins .」
Queen Catherine:「You think that is gon na save me ? If you really cared about my well - being , you 'd have brought some poison like I asked ! Then , at least , I could die with dignity , alone , at my own hand .」

NOSTRADAMUS:「You must n't say such things . Suicide is a mortal sin ! You 'd be condemned to the fires of Hell .」
Queen Catherine:「Henry intends to make a spectacle of my death , as a final insult to me , and to bring some semblance of validity to his actions . I wo n't grant him the satisfaction , if I have to tear my throat out with my own hands ! And unless you 're prepared to help me in that goal , get out and do n't return !」
narration:Without saying another word , Nostradamus sits the bible down and leaves , while Catherine notices some rope and a noose sitting nearby
 OUTSIDE THE CASTLE :
 After the events of the morning , with the Frost Fair , outside the castle , a mini - fair is being hosted ; one similar to the one the Princes were unable to attend
MARY:「What 's going on ? Bash , what have you done ?」
PRINCE CHARLES:「This is all for us ?」
BASH:「Yes . Now go make friends .」
narration:The boys run off and join the festivities
BASH:「You said they should have a normal childhood , but also be safe .」
MARY:「They missed out on the Frost Fair in the village , so you brought it to them ? That is the sweetest thing I 've ever seen .」

BASH:「Their entire lives are filled with danger and isolation . I just wanted them to have this day .」
narration:Mary kisses Bash
PRINCE CHARLES:「Mary , come help us with our masks !」
narration:She obliges and rushes over to help them
 BACK IN PARIS :
 After refusing an additional payment to allow the men from the tavern to release her brother , Lola continues to press them . Meanwhile , patrons continue playing games and gambling
LOLA ( coming up behind Maurice ):「I 've made some arrangements . I can pay you double the debt , but it 'll take a week to assemble the money .」
MAURICE:「I do n't think so .」
narration:Maurice walks over to a neighboring table and speaks with a gentlemen who just won a round on a game
MAURICE:「Well done . What incredible luck you must have .」
narration:Maurice pulls out a hammer and smashes the man 's hand with it . Several other men come and drag him away as he screams in agony
MAURICE:「He 's a cheat , just like your brother .」
LOLA:「Was that really necessary ?」
MAURICE:「He 's lucky I did n't crush both his hands . That 's the penalty at most establishments , but I prefer to be merciful . Your brother begged me to spare him that fate . He said that your family was wealthy , and that he 'd make it worth my while . I had no idea how worthwhile until I laid my eyes on you .」
LOLA:「Why me ? You ca n't make this offer to many . It 's not good business .」
MAURICE:「You 're a lady of title . I 've taken money from many a noble , but none ever treated me as an equal . I 'd like to know what it feels like to touch what only they can touch . Do we have a deal ?」
narration:Before Lola can speak , another man comes to offer a better deal to Maurice
MAN:「Pardon me . I could n't help but overhear that this lady is to be played for this evening . My benefactor , the Viscount de Brilhac , would like the chance to win her for himself .」
MAURICE:「She 's not available . She 's with me .」
MAN:「The Viscount is prepared to wager double her debt on one cut of the cards .」
MAURICE:「I 've already been offered that .」
narration:Suddenly , Francis makes his presence known . He is the benefactor the man is speaking of
FRANCIS:「Four times , then .」
narration:Lola looks somewhat unaffected . She does not hint that she knows him , or who he is
FRANCIS:「Surely the owner of the celebrated Burgundy House is not afraid of a simple wager ? One cut of the cards .」
MAURICE ( relenting ):「One cut of the cards . Four times the debt , plus the girl if I win .」
FRANCIS:「And if I win ; the debt is forgiven , and the girl is mine .」

narration:They walk over to the table and play a round . Francis pulls bad cards and loses the wager
MAURICE:「Too bad , Monsieur Viscount .」
FRANCIS:「Double it again .」
MAURICE:「Eight times the debt , you mean ? And the girl .」
FRANCIS:「And the girl . Though I do n't know why you 'd risk it . It 's much safer to just take the money .」
MAURICE:「If your gallantry is as easy as your lovely inherited money , why not make it 16 times the debt ?」
LOLA:「No .」
FRANCIS:「Very well . After you .」
narration:Maurice turns over a card , revealing an ace of spades . Francis takes his turn and pulls out a King of hearts , winning the game
MAURICE:「Well - played .」
FRANCIS:「Luck of the draw ( looking over to Lola ) Shall we retire to my room , my lady ?」
narration:Francis and Lola go to leave
MAURICE:「Wait . You look familiar . Have n't I seen you somewhere before ?」
FRANCIS:「I 'm told I look like the Dauphin of France ; only taller .」
narration:AT THE FROST FAIR :
KENNA ( to Greer ):「Well , I agree with Mary . They should stay here , at the home they 've always known . Look at them , having the time of their lives .」
narration:Greer looks over to a shady man standing besides a tree
GREER:「Who 's that ?」
KENNA:「I do n't know . Some servant , perhaps ?」
GREER:「He looks ill at ease , do n't you think ?」
narration:Kenna sees a little boy has fallen on the ground , thinking it to be one of the princes , she goes to help him up . Both girls start to panic
KENNA:「Charles ! Oh , Charles . Come here . Are you all right ?」
narration:Kenna pulls off the mask , revealing the little boy not to be either of the princes
KENNA:「Charles ?」
GREER:「Henry ?」
KENNA:「CHARLES !」
GREER ( pulling off the mask of another little boy ):「Henry ?」
narration:Mary hears the commotion and susses out the situation
MARY:「What is it ?」
GREER:「We ca n't find the princes .」
BASH:「Everyone ! Masks off at once !」
narration:All of the children remove their masks . None of which are either of the princes
MARY:「Bash !」
BASH:「They 're gone .」
ACT 3:「Edit」
narration:Bash , Mary , Kenna and Greer start scouring the fair looking for Henry and Charles
MARY ( to the ladies ):「Search the castle and the grounds . They ca n't have gone far .. and check the boys ' chambers .. and find Lord Hugo !」
BASH:「Mary , wait .」
