HOWARD:「We know the Catholics take their
 orders from Spain. The Spanish
 speak openly of Mary Stuart as」
narrator:Queen of England in waiting.
Queen Elizabeth I:「sharply) Mary Stuart is a Queen cast out by her own ungrateful nation.」

narrator:A
 ELIZABETH
 You'd have me make a martyr of
 her. What is her crime?
 EXT. THAMES - DAY 7
 7 The Londoners on the river bank cheer and wave as the royal barge goes by.
HOWARD:「V.O.)
 Treachery, ma'am. All Catholics
 are traitors! Their loyalty is to
 the Pope of Rome.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「V.O.) How many Catholics are there in England, sir?」

narrator:INT. PRIVY CHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 8
 8
 ELIZABETH
 What would you have me do? `Cut
 out' half the people of England?
 HOWARD
 We must act, majesty. Our
 inaction is taken to be weakness.
 ELIZABETH
 If any of my people break the
 law, they will be punished. Until that day, I wish them to be let
 them alone.
 HATTON
 Until the day they rise in
 rebellion! Majesty, we have proven reason to fear every Catholic in the land -
Queen Elizabeth I:「Fear creates fear, sir. I will not punish my people for their beliefs. Only for their deeds. am assured that the people of England love their Queen. My constant endeavour is to earn that love.」

WALSINGHAM:「Austria. France. Sweden.
 ELIZABETH
 Why stop there? Turkey has a
 Sultan. China has an Emperor.
 (to Bess)
 What sort of man do you want?
 WALSINGHAM
 I confine myself to the possible.
 BESS
 An honest man. With friendly
 eyes.」
narrator:May 1 Blue Draft7
 ELIZABETH
 (to Walsingham)
 That's where you and I differ,
 Walsingham. I find the impossible
 far more interesting.
 (to Bess)
 And good legs. You'll want good legs.
BESS:「And sweet breath.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「So that you can kiss him without choking.」
narrator:to Walsingham) There must be any amount of
 princes in undiscovered lands
 across the sea. Find me an honest one of those.
 A
 9A INT. ST PAUL'S CATHEDRAL - DAY
 The royal party enters the Cathedral. Elizabeth and Walsingham advance into the wide empty nave, followed by the Queen's ladies and the guards. Bess is now back in her place among the ladies. E LIZABETH Ship builders are being recruited in Spanish ports at double wages. The sea wall at Dover is cracking. There's no money to rebuild our defences. I don't need advisers to tell me my business.

WALSINGHAM:「They care for your safety, majesty. The threats to your person are real.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「And they know very well that if I fall, they all come tumbling down after me.」
narrator:She goes on to the steps at the foot of the altar, and kneels to pray. As she kneels she holds out one hand behind her, not looking round. Bess steps forward, and taking her hand, kneels and prays with her.
 Double Pink revision 18 July - p.8
Queen Elizabeth I:「Let's pray, Bess. May we have wisdom not to fear shadows in the night, and courage when the day of danger truly dawns.」

narrator:EXT THE TYGER, ENGLISH CHANNEL - DAY 11
 11
 Raleigh is standing on the prow of a war-ship as it cuts
 through the water toward the white cliffs of Dover. The
 ship and its sailors have been at sea for many months, and
 it shows.
 Raleigh shouts to his Sailing-Master.
 RALEIGH
 Let England know we're back, Mr
 Calley.
 CALLEY
 Master Gunner, run out starboard and tie-off. A broadside from the
 bow.
 MASTER GUNNER
 Run out and prime. From the bow
 number one gun, on my word -
 discharge! Two -- Three-- Four.
 Canon fire echoes over the distant white cliffs.
 INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - NIGHT 13
 13 ON ELIZABETH - Imperfectly reflected in a mirror in the soft candlelight. Her ladies are putting her clothes away.
 E Bess begins the process of stripping away her make-up.
 lizabeth studies her true face as it comes into view.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Lines round my mouth. Where did they come from?」

narrator:INT. CHAPEL ROYAL - DAY 18A
 18A The Queen at her prayers, her mind elsewhere; privately amused.
Queen Elizabeth I:「A puddle...」

narrator:DOORKEEPER There's no way of knowing that,
 sir.
 The doorkeeper stands aside for Bess. She recognises
 Raleigh, and throws him a smile before rushing past.
 RALEIGH
 (as if to Calley)
 I had less trouble than this boarding a Spanish ship!
 Everything is easier when you can
 kill people.
 INT. GREAT HALL, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 21
 21 Bess curtseys before Elizabeth; who shakes her head at her.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Late again, Bess.」
BESS:「I beg your majesty's forgiveness.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Given. Once.」

narrator:Yellow Revision May 22-- p.19
 Elizabeth takes Bess's arm and turns with her to the portraits.
Queen Elizabeth I:「My suitors.」
narrator:The Courtier has a fourth portrait.
 COURTIER
 The Archduke Charles of Austria,
 majesty.
 HATTON
 The younger brother of Maximilian II, the Holy Roman Emperor.
 WALSINGHAM
 A cousin of Philip II of Spain.
 BESS
 He's rather sweet.
Queen Elizabeth I:「More your age than mine, Bess. How old is he?」
narrator:HATTON
 Young... I believe, majesty. An
 Austrian alliance would keep France quiet.
 WALSINGHAM And it would put Philip on a
 leash.
 Elizabeth looks across at the Spaniards.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I become almost enthusiastic. to Hatton)
 Send for him. (to Bess) Where is he, then?」
narrator:Bess understands. She bobs and hurries to the door.
Queen Elizabeth I:「to Walsingham) How much longer do you think I can play this game?」

narrator:Yellow Revision May 22 - p.20 One of the Spaniards recognises him and murmurs to the Ambassador; who speaks angrily to the Queen.
DON GUERAU:「Majesty, this man is a notorious pirate.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Indeed?」
narrator:Don Guerau points to the hampers.
DON GUERAU:「Spanish treasure, stolen from Spanish ships. You will see. R aleigh kneels before the Queen. Elizabeth gestures for him to rise.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Well, sir. Who are you?」
RALEIGH:「Walter Raleigh, your majesty.」
narrator:ELIZABETH
 Ah, yes. Raleigh. I've heard of your voyage. What's your rank?
 RALEIGH A gentleman of Devon.
Queen Elizabeth I:「What do you want?」
RALEIGH:「The honour to be in the presence of my Queen, whose radiant beauty is the boast and glory of the English people.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Yes, well, here you are.」
ALEIGH:「I'm just returned from the New World, majesty. I have claimed the fertile coast in your name, and called it Virginia, in honour of our Virgin Queen.」
narrator:Elizabeth raises her eyebrows.

Queen Elizabeth I:「Virginia? And if I marry? Will you change the name to Conjugia?」

narrator:Yellow Revision May 22 -p.21
RALEIGH:「I ask for your gracious permission, majesty, to return to the New World with your royal warrant, to found a colony under the laws and protections of England. E lizabeth's eye has fallen on the native Americans.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Who are they?」
RALEIGH:「Americans, majesty. They long to
 be your newest subjects.」
narrator:He beckons Calley to lead Wanchese and Manteo forward.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Have they no ruler of their own?」
RALEIGH:「None to match England's Queen.」
narrator:Elizabeth gazes at the natives. She holds out her hand. Unaware that he's meant to kiss the Queen's hand, Manteo, takes it and shakes it. A gasp from the watching courtiers. But Elizabeth accepts the courtesy.
Queen Elizabeth I:「These gentlemen are welcome. See that they're treated well.」
narrator:Calley hurries them away before worse happens.
RALEIGH:「I also come bearing gifts for your majesty, from the New World.」
narrator:He beckons to the servants to bring the baskets. Don Guerau steps forward.

DON GUERAU:「The fruits of piracy, majesty. The true property of the realm of Spain.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Let's see, shall we? to Raleigh) What do you bring me?」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft - p.22
 Members of the court share suppressed smiles.
Queen Elizabeth I:「amused) Mud and leaves?」
narrator:aleigh throws open the first basket. Don Guerau peers inside suspiciously. It does indeed seem to be filled with mud.
 Raleigh takes out a potato beneath the Ambassador's nose.
RALEIGH:「Patata, majesty. You eat it. Very nourishing.」
narrator:He beckons forward the second basket, which is full of leaves. Again Don Guerau tracks his every move. He takes out a tobacco leaf. R
ALEIGH:「Tobacco. You breathe its smoke. Very stimulating.」
narrator:Now Don Guerau realises he's being laughed at on all sides. He draws himself up with angry pride, wrinkling his nose.
DON GUERAU:「Forgive me, majesty, I find the air has become stale. I am sensitive to the smell of open sewers.」
narrator:A glare at Raleigh, a bow for the Queen, and Don Guerau leads his Spaniards out.
Queen Elizabeth I:「to Raleigh) Continue.」
narrator:With a broad smile, Raleigh gestures forward the third basket. This one really is full of gold. He takes out a gold coin and presents it to Elizabeth.

RALEIGH:「Gold. You spend it. Very satisfying.」
narrator:Elizabeth examines the fat gold coin, with its image of Philip of Spain. She tries not to smile.
RALEIGH:「Courtesy of a Spanish ship, that found itself unable to complete its journey.」
narrator:Elizabeth drops the gold coin back into the basket.
 Green Revision May 25 - p.23
Queen Elizabeth I:「The fruits of piracy after all,
 it seems.
 RALEIGH Philip of Spain is no friend of England, majesty. The more gold I take from him, the safer you will be.
 Well, well. A political pirate. A logic-chopping pirate.」
RALEIGH:「And your majesty's most loyal subject.」
narrator:She gives him a long look.
Queen Elizabeth I:「But not my best dressed. W
 (Beat) elcome home, Mr Raleigh.」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft - p.30
RALEIGH:「No, ma'am. A sunk ship is of no value. The object is to capture and command.」
narrator:COURT LADY And how do you do that?
RALEIGH:「Surprise. Speed. Irresistible violence.」
narrator:Calley, listening, rolls his eyes.
 Elizabeth, at the table with the Archduke by her side, glances towards Raleigh, and sees him flirting with the court ladies. Then back to the young Archduke, who has hardly touched his food.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I think you're not as accustomed as I am to eating in public. I have a secret. lowering her voice) I pretend there's a pane of glass - eine Glasscheibe - between me and them. S he moves one hand before her face, indicating an imaginary pane of glass. As she looks, she sees Bess staring at someone - follows her gaze - and is amused to find that the object of her attention is also Raleigh.
 They can see me, but they can't hear me, or touch me. You should try it.」
narrator:She beckons to Bess.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Bess.」
narrator:Bess comes forward.
Queen Elizabeth I:「low) He interests me. Talk to him.」

BESS:「Him, my lady?」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Him.」

narrator:Green Revision May 25 - p.31
 Elizabeth turns back to her guest.
Queen Elizabeth I:「His highness is tired after his journey.」
narrator:The young Archduke, frozen with shyness, sits staring before him, trembling as he frames a proper reply.
 ARCHDUKE CHARLES No man can be tired in the presence of so lovely a Queen. E lizabeth speaks so only he can hear, in German.
Queen Elizabeth I:「You play the game very well, my young friend. But don't you」

narrator:They both look at the Queen. She's watching Raleigh. He
 bows.
BESS:「It seems you've presumed after all.」
RALEIGH:「It seems you're determined to think the worst of me.」
BESS:「Tell me what it is you really want.」
RALEIGH:「What every man wants. Money. Fame. Love.」
BESS:「In that order?」
RALEIGH:「Each leads to the next. The money will buy and equip ships for a return voyage to the New World. The success of my infant colony there will make me famous. The fame will bring me love.」
BESS:「It seems rather a long way round.」
RALEIGH:「There are benefits along the way. It is something, after all, to take a blank on the map and build there a shining city.」
BESS:「Which you will no doubt name after yourself.」
narrator:May 1 Blue Draft - p.33
RALEIGH:「smiling) No doubt. B」
narrator:ESS Well, then. I am answered.
RALEIGH:「May I ask a question in return?」
BESS:「Of course.」
RALEIGH:「How am I to win the Queen's favour?」
BESS:「Why should I tell you that, sir?」
RALEIGH:「I've little enough to offer, I know. But whatever I have to give - ask, and it's yours.」
narrator:Bess thinks for a moment.
BESS:「My advice to you is, say what you mean to say as plainly as possible. All men flatter the Queen in the hope of advancement. Pay her the compliment of truth.」
narrator:She gives him her hand. He kisses it.
RALEIGH:「I don't even know your name.」
BESS:「Elizabeth Throckmorton.」
RALEIGH:「A second Elizabeth.」
BESS:「Everyone calls me Bess. S he goes back to the Queen, as Elizabeth is rising to leave. She speaks to the company.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「His highness the Archduke informs me that my charms overwhelm him. He will retire to his private quarters to rest.」

narrator:This causes much amusement. Don Guerau sneers openly. The Archduke rises. All rise. The Archduke bows solemnly to the Queen, and leaves with his entourage. Elizabeth beckons to Walsingham, and speaks low to him.
Queen Elizabeth I:「He's a sweet boy. I don't want him hurt by your schemes.」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - DAY 28
 28 Bess is reading to Elizabeth. Elizabeth watching her, her mind elsewhere.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I suspect him of being a professional charmer. Am I right?」
BESS:「He is certainly charming, my lady.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「There are duller professions. And what is it he hopes to gain by his charms?」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft - p. 39
 A short silence. Elizabeth is absorbing what he has told her.
Queen Elizabeth I:「V.O.) The Queen does not have a private
 life.」
narrator:INT PRESENCE CHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 35
 35 Elizabeth is on the throne. The Archduke Charles and his entourage face her. The court fills the room. Elizabeth makes her formal response to the young Archduke.
Queen Elizabeth I:「The Queen lives for her people. You will therefore forgive me, sir, if after much thought and prayer I decline your offer of marriage.」
narrator:The Archduke, barely able to conceal his relief, turns to the Austrian ambassador.
 ARCHDUKE CHARLES (Can I go home now?)
 Elizabeth inclines her head, trying not to smile.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Go home, my friend. Don't be in a hurry to grow old. Youth is so very precious.)」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft - p. 40
 BESS
 I expect I'll think of something.
 Bess hurries after the Queen. The Austrian entourage is just leaving as the Queen turns.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Mr. Raleigh.」

narrator:INT QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - DAY 35A
 35A Elizabeth and Raleigh walk together around the perimeter hallway, dwarfed by vast murals.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I like your immensities. Your ocean is an image of eternity, I think. Such great spaces make us small. Do we discover the New World, Mr Raleigh, or does the New World discover us?」
RALEIGH:「You speak like a true explorer.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「I like you, Mr Raleigh.」
RALEIGH:「And I like you.」
narrator:She stops and turns to meet Raleigh's eyes. She's not used to such direct replies. Bess is watching them.
Queen Elizabeth I:「You know, of course, that when I like a man, I reward him.」
ALEIGH:「I have heard that.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「And what have you to say about it?
 R ALEIGH Reward my mission, majesty, not me.
 Is the mission not the man?
 RALEIGH Leave me free to like you in return. That can be my reward.」
narrator:
Queen Elizabeth I:「Go on.
 RALEIGH I think it must be hard for so great a Queen to know the simple pleasure of being liked for herself.」

narrator:Elizabeth stares. This is a little too close to the truth.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Now you become dull.」

narrator:B
 35B
 EXT. WINDSOR GREAT PARK - DAY
 Horses racing, hoofs pounding over the grass, manes flying - Two riders hurtle between the trees, down a woodland ride, neck and neck-
 Elizabeth and Raleigh are racing against each other, faces glowing, laughing, abandoned to the breakneck speed of the moment.
 Raleigh is winning now, first by a head, then by a length. At the end of the ride he slows his horse to a walk.
RALEIGH:「Mine!」
narrator:Elizabeth shakes her head, unable to speak.
Queen Elizabeth I:「out of breath) You have - the stronger horse.」

Queen Elizabeth I:「When I marry, I marry for my
 country.」

narrator:INT. PRIVY CHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 41
 41 Bess hurries ahead of the others through the Privy Chamber to the Queen's private quarters.
 B
 42 INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - DAY
 ess passes ladies organising the Queen's wardrobe. She finds the Queen laughing with Raleigh - not alone, but unusually informal.
LIZABETH:「Don't tease me, Mr Raleigh. There's nothing I'd like to do more.」
RALEIGH:「So why don't you?」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Alright, then. I will.」
narrator:He blinks: caught by surprise.
Queen Elizabeth I:「See! You lie! You don't want me
 on your ship at all. (turning towards Bess)
 You're a liar!
 Elizabeth now takes in Bess.」

narrator:Green revision May 25 -p.44
Queen Elizabeth I:「Would you like to go to sea, Bess?」
narrator:BESS
 Majesty?
 RALEIGH I'm afraid that's not possible. Women bring bad luck on board ship.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Oh, do they?」
RALEIGH:「Lock up a hundred men in a space smaller than this room, for months at a time - Men have needs. A beautiful woman like you would drive us all mad.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「amused) Men have needs?」
narrator:nce again Elizabeth meets Raleigh's eyes. Then she breaks away, feeling the contact is dangerous.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Then let them stay on land and see to their needs. (to Bess) Mr Raleigh is eager to sail away to his infant colony, Bess. We must persuade him to stay a little longer, mustn't we?」

OMITTED:「A-B
 44A-B」
narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - DAY 45
 45 Multiple images of Elizabeth, naked. Strange misty refracted glimpses of her face, her body.
 A bath of steaming hot water has been placed in the Queen's private quarters, and screened by mirrors. The Queen is in the bath, being washed by her ladies. B ess Throckmorton has the job of holding the Queen's hair out of the water as she's washed. She strokes the soft tresses as she holds them, unaware that Elizabeth can see her in the mirror.
 Then she looks up and catches Elizabeth's eyes, and stops in confusion.
Queen Elizabeth I:「No, don't stop. I like it.」
narrator:Bess returns to her gentle caresses, and Elizabeth to her thoughts.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Is it true, Bess? That I've never known the simple pleasure of being liked for myself?」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft - p. 50
BESS:「No doubt, my lady.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Him too. He likes you because he wants my favour. You do realise that?」
BESS:「Yes, my lady.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「And the other thing too, of course. But all men want that. Male desire confers no B
 distinction.」

Queen Elizabeth I:「If she wants my love, let her
 deserve it. Refused.」
narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 47
 47 Elizabeth enters her private quarters, now moving with regal dignity once more, but the flush on her cheeks gives her away. Her ladies follow.
 There stands Raleigh, waiting for her.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Mr Raleigh. I've kept you waiting.」
narrator:RALEIGH
 You have more important concerns
 than me.
 ELIZABETH
 There is always other business.
 But I have been waiting too.
 Walsingham enters.
WALSINGHAM:「Majesty.」
narrator:Elizabeth turns on him with a frown of irritation.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Yes, Walsingham?」
WALSINGHAM:「The traitor has talked, majesty. The traitor Throckmorton.」
narrator:orchid revisions 28 June - p. 52A
 A flash of fear in Bess's eyes.
Queen Elizabeth I:「to Raleigh) Forgive me, sir. As you see, my time is not my own.」

narrator:INT. WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 49
 49 Now there are guards everywhere. The whole palace is on heightened alert.
 lizabeth sweeps out of the Privy Chamber into the Great Hall, accompanied by the Spanish Ambassador on one side and Walsingham on the other. Her entourage scuttles behind.
Queen Elizabeth I:「What do you know of the Enterprise of England, Ambassador?」
DON GUERAU:「The Enterprise...? Forgive me, your majesty...」
Queen Elizabeth I:「It's a plan for the invasion of my country. Two armies landing on the coasts of Sussex and -」
WALSINGHAM:「Norfolk.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「And Norfolk. Mary Stuart is to be set free, and placed on the English throne.」
narrator:May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 54 ELIZABETHI am to be assassinated. Does any of this sound familiar?
DON GUERAU:「I know nothing of any invasion plans.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「I refer to this plan as the Enterprise of England. It should more accurately be called `la Empresa di Inglaterra', because it's a Spanish plan. The plan of your king, my one-time brother-in- law, Philip II, to attack my country.」

narrator:The Ambassador decides the best form of defence is attack. D ON GUERAU Attack? It is my country that is under attack! Your so-called pirates attack our merchant ships daily! Do you think we don't know where their orders come from? The whole world knows that pirates sail up the Thames all the way to the royal bed!
Queen Elizabeth I:「exploding) You will leave my presence, sir! Go back to Spain! Tell Philip that I don't fear him, or his priests, or his armies. Tell him if he wants to shake his little fist at us, we're ready to give him such a bite he'll wish he'd kept his hands in his pockets.」
narrator:Don Guerau sees no point in further pretence. He speaks with pride and contempt.
DON GUERAU:「You see a leaf fall, and you think you know which way the wind blows. But a wind is coming, madam, that will sweep away your pride. H e bows and turns to go. Elizabeth's words blaze after him.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「I too can command the wind, sir. I have a hurricane in me that will strip Spain bare, if you dare to try me!」
narrator:May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 55
 Shivering with rage she turns round, and there's Raleigh. Her fury overflows onto him.

Queen Elizabeth I:「What are you staring at? Lower your eyes! I am the Queen!」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - DAY
 Elizabeth is pacing, disturbed, Raleigh's letter open in her hand.
 The doors open. Raleigh enters. Elizabeth waits for the servants to close the doors behind him. Holds up the letter.
Queen Elizabeth I:「You ask permission to go.」

RALEIGH:「Yes, majesty.
 ELIZABETH
 You plan to return to the New
 World. To your colony. For two,
 or three, or four years.
 RALEIGH
 If your majesty grants me your
 royal warrant.
 ELIZABETH
 That is a long time.
 RALEIGH
 There's nothing left for me to do
 here. At sea I know what I'm to
 do, I know the risks, I know the
 rewards. Here -」
narrator:May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 58
 A shrug. What can he do?
 ELIZABETH But you're quite wrong. You are needed here. I have decided to appoint you Captain of my personal guard.
RALEIGH:「Captain of your - !」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Kneel.」
narrator:He kneels. She taps him on the shoulder with one hand.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Rise, Sir Walter Raleigh.」

Queen Elizabeth I:「If it's such an honour, why are
 you staring at your boots?
 RALEIGH
 You know why.
 He raises his eyes, but he still doesn't look at her.
 ELIZABETH Now you stare at the wall. Am I so old and hideous that you can't even look me in the face?」
narrator:He turns now, and looks her in the face.
 RALEIGH Why do you talk like a fool when you're anything but a fool?
 This stops her in her tracks. For a moment she can't trust herself to speak. Then:
Queen Elizabeth I:「My friend, forgive me. I'm a vain and foolish woman. At court it's all a game. I like to be admired. I require it. I grow accustomed to it. But it's all - nothing.」

narrator:EXT. RIVER/DEE'S HOUSE - DUSK
 The moon seen through a sextant.
 A strange figure stands on the flat roof of a riverside house, studying the night sky. He's tall, with a long pointed beard and a skullcap: the famous magus DR JOHN DEE.
 A hiss and splash from the night river. He turns to look. Out of the mists and shadows comes the lights of an approaching barge.
 ON THE ROYAL BARGE - Elizabeth and Walsingham, wrapped against night chill, being rowed up river. Over this, lines led from the next scene:
Queen Elizabeth I:「V.O.) W ell, Dr Dee. Here I am again,
 back to consult the wisdom of
 your charts.」
narrator:INT. DEE'S HOUSE - DUSK 63
 63 The finest library in England. The greatest array of scientific instruments. Part study, part laboratory, part magician's lair, Dr Dee's house is crammed with the evidence of his wide-ranging curiosity.
 May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 64
 The magus sits at a table before an astrological chart, while Elizabeth and Walsingham look on.

DEE:「The alignment of the planets is
 most unusual this year. Mars is
 due to take the ascendant three
 days after the anniversary of
 your birth - your majesty was
 born on September 7th - and I see
 that twelve days before the
 anniversary of your birth -
 He transfers his attention to a different, astronomical chart.
 there will be a full moon - the
 moon which -」
narrator:He moves back to the astrological chart.
DEE:「governs the fortunes of all princes of the female gender.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Princes of the female gender.」
DEE:「I mean to say, a prince who is also a woman.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Yes, Dr Dee. I am following you. So what does it all mean? D EE It means the rise of a great empire, majesty. And it means convulsions, also. The fall of an empire.」
narrator:Elizabeth listens, a faraway look in her eyes. She knows nothing of the planets, but she feels it deep within herself: her moment of destiny is near.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Which empire is to rise, and which is to fall?」
DEE:「That I can't say. Astrology is, as yet, more an art than a science.」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 65
 Walsingham has been idly examining the scientific instruments. He speaks now as if his question is casual.
WALSINGHAM:「Nothing more, Dr Dee? No more specific calamities that we can guard against?」
Queen Elizabeth I:「He means, Will I be assassinated?」
WALSINGHAM:「Queens are mortal.」
narrator:Dr Dee smiles as he gently contradicts him.
DEE:「Elizabeth is mortal. The Queen will never die.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「You see, Francis? This is a mystery. (to Dee) He has no patience with mysteries. W」
narrator:ALSINGHAM What I don't know, I can't use.
DEE:「And yet mysteries have power. Have you not learned that?」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Francis. Leave us for a moment.」
narrator:Walsingham leaves. Elizabeth turns to Dr Dee. Now for a short private moment the Queen becomes a woman.
Queen Elizabeth I:「And the private life of this prince of the female gender, Dr Dee? What do the stars foretell there? Or is this too a mystery?」
DEE:「These are matters of state, majesty.」

Queen Elizabeth I:「Do the stars not foretell matters of state?」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 68
 68 DANCING MASTER Jump!
 The dancing master is instructing Bess in the dance called La Volta, watched by the Queen, her ladies and courtiers. A trio of musicians plays a jaunty tune.
 ANCING MASTER (to Bess) When I push like this, my lady, give a jump into the air.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Let him throw you round, Bess. You can trust him.」
narrator:The dancing master spins Bess round and lifts her up into the air. Her feet fly out as she spins. It's a bold, even risqué dance, and the onlookers laugh to see it.
 DANCING MASTER And round - and round - and round - and down!
 He lowers Bess to the ground. She loves it. As the spinning begins again, Raleigh enters.
LIZABETH:「L a Volta, Mr Raleigh. The jump. I require all my ladies to learn it. You see how fearless Bess is.」
narrator:Raleigh watches Bess dance.
RALEIGH:「You like your ladies to jump at your command?」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Sometimes. Do you think that wrong?」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 69
RALEIGH:「No, no. You're the Queen. You are to be obeyed.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「To tell you the truth, Mr Raleigh, there are times when I'm tired of being always in control.」
RALEIGH:「Nonsense.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「What?」
RALEIGH:「You don't mean a word of it. You eat and drink control.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Do you say so?」
narrator:The exercise ends. All clap.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Bess, you must try a dance with Mr Raleigh. He's eager to show us his skill.」
RALEIGH:「No skill at all, majesty. I don't know the steps.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Oh, it's very simple.」
narrator:he goes to Bess to demonstrate, holding her by the waist.
Queen Elizabeth I:「You stand like this, with your hands firmly clasped here - and when she jumps, on the eighth step, you swing her round - once, twice, three times - and you're back to the beginning. What could be simpler?」
narrator:DANCING MASTER Your majesty knows the dance better than I.

Queen Elizabeth I:「So come, Mr Raleigh. Take your position. I am to be obeyed.」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft 28 June - p. 70
 Raleigh takes his place with Bess.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Hold her tight. I don't want her dropped. ( to the musicians) Play!」
narrator:The dance begins again. Bess jumps, and Raleigh swings her round and round, finding the knack after an awkward start. Elizabeth watches, smiling, nodding to the beat. She can see the faces of the dancers; and so long as she controls the intimacy between them, she's excited by it.
 Walsingham enters and stands by her side, watching.
Queen Elizabeth I:「low) Leave her alone, Walsingham. I want both of them left alone.」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 79
 79 Elizabeth sits deep in thought, Bess by her side. Shadows all round.
Queen Elizabeth I:「They say she's taller than me. Her hair is chestnut in colour.
 Her eyes are hazel. They say
 she's beautiful. But people lie.
 They say I am beautiful.
 A dismissive shrug. Clearly she does not think herself
 beautiful.
 BESS
 She plotted to kill you.
 ELIZABETH
 Yes, it's true. I've read her
 letters. I too was a prisoner」

narrator:INT. PRIVY CHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - NIGHT
 Elizabeth raging at Walsingham.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Must die? Mary Stuart must die?
 Where is it written? Who dares to」
narrator:give orders to the Queen?
 ALSINGHAM Majesty, this is no time for mercy -
Queen Elizabeth I:「Don't preach at me, old man. Look at you! You can hardly stand. Go home to your wife. Go home to your bed.」
WALSINGHAM:「The law must have its way.」
narrator:orchid revisions 28 june - p.78
Queen Elizabeth I:「The law is for common men, not for princes.」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 83
 83 Elizabeth sits alone, deep in thought.
 Raleigh enters, and comes before her. She doesn't look round, but she knows it's him.
RALEIGH:「My Queen.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「My friend.」
narrator:Still she doesn't turn to him.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Did Bess bid you come? Have you」

Queen Elizabeth I:「My duty? Was it my father's duty
 to murder my mother? I would be」
narrator:loath to die so bloody a death.
RALEIGH:「Since when were you so afraid?」
narrator:Now she looks at him.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Yes, I am afraid. I am always afraid.」
narrator:Raleigh looks back at her in silence for a long moment. Then -
RALEIGH:「You fear your soul will be touched. Royalty is close to immortality. Kill a Queen - and queens are mortal.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「You understand me well.」

narrator:orchid revisions 28 june - p.79A
 Elizabeth closes her eyes.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Do we? Do we really?」
narrator:She nods, her eyes still closed.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I owe England my life. Don't ask
 for my soul.」

narrator:INT. PRIVY CHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 88
 88 ow deeply distressed, Elizabeth suddenly bursts out of the Privy Chamber into the great Presence Chamber, tears welling into her eyes. Bess close behind her.
 She hardly notices the people around her, until she sees Raleigh.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I want it stopped!」

narrator:INT. GREAT HALL, WHITEHALL - DAY 90
 90 Elizabeth is hysterical, shouting in Raleigh's restraining arms.
Queen Elizabeth I:「No! It must be stopped!」

narrator:INT. PRIVY CHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - DAY 97
 97 Walsingham on his knees before Elizabeth, abasing himself in shame. Elizabeth is in control once more. E LIZABETH How have you failed me? What am I to forgive you for?
 may 1 blue draft 28 June - p. 83
WALSINGHAM:「Philip of Spain is a God-fearing man. He cannot make war without just cause. He sent the Jesuit to kill a Queen. But not you.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Not me!」
WALSINGHAM:「The Jesuit's mission was to draw Mary Stuart into the murder plot. He knew I was reading her every letter. He waited until she wrote the words that sealed her guilt.」
narrator:Now Elizabeth gets it.
Queen Elizabeth I:「slowly) And I ordered her execution. I murdered God's anointed Queen. And now God's most dutiful son makes holy war to punish me.」

narrator:Walsingham leaves. Elizabeth never even looks at him. She's looking into the distance, preparing herself for what must
 now come.
 INT. LISBON CATHEDRAL - DAY 98
 98 The great Standard of the Armada, bearing the image of the Virgin, is carried into the cathedral.
 Philip follows, leading a column of Spain's noblest GRANDEES and PRINCES of the church.
 The ARCHBISHOP sprinkles holy water onto the Standard, and makes the sign of the Cross over it.
 ARCHBISHOP Exurge, domine et vindica causam tuam. Amen.
 Philip kneels to kiss the blessed Standard - which is then thrust aloft again, into the vast spaces of the Cathedral.
 may 1 blue draft 28 June - p. 84 And at once there is a great outpouring of emotion, the congregation applauding, many weeping at the sight. 9
 INT. QUEEN'S PRIVATE QUARTERS - NIGHT 9
 99 Elizabeth is alone, pacing slowly, reading a book - the Consolation of Philosophy, by Boethius. She reads, pauses, looks into the far distance; then reads and walks again.
Queen Elizabeth I:「V.O.) `Think you that there is any certainty in the affairs of mankind, when you know that one swift hour can destroy the greatest among us?'」

narrator:She turns, and there is Raleigh. She holds up her book.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Boethius.」
RALEIGH:「The Consolation of Philosophy.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Thank you for coming at this late hour.」
narrator:She closes her book and puts it away.
Queen Elizabeth I:「We're at war. Who knows when we'll meet again. If we'll meet again.」
RALEIGH:「May the Lord God preserve England's Queen.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「The same God in whose name Philip wages his holy war. Philip is a righteous man, and righteous men love to destroy. They burn whole worlds to make them pure, and leave behind - ashes.」
RALEIGH:「He'll not burn England.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「He may. His Armada is invincible, they say. If London falls, I
 fall. If England is lost, I am
 lost.」
narrator:may 1 blue draft 28 June - p. 85
RALEIGH:「Never!」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Never? It's night. My thoughts turn dark. Don't you ever think that one day, perhaps one day soon, you too will die?」

RALEIGH:「The closer I come to death, the more I want to live. The hungrier I am for life.」
narrator:His defiant energy breaks Elizabeth's morbid mood. E LIZABETH You're right. We must live while we can.
RALEIGH:「Why be afraid of tomorrow? Today's all we have, and all we know.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「Today. Tonight.」
RALEIGH:「Now.」
narrator:They hold each other's eyes.
Queen Elizabeth I:「I wish -」
narrator:But she can't say it.
RALEIGH:「I've never known a woman like you.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「In some other time, in some other world, could you have loved me?」
RALEIGH:「I know only one world. In this world, I have loved you.」
narrator:Elizabeth smiles a small smile.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Then there's... something you
 could do for me - something I've not known for a very long time - if you felt so inclined -」

narrator:may 1 blue draft 28 June - p. 86
 Raleigh intuits what she wants. He comes closer as she speaks.
 E LIZABETH Something not to be spoken of afterwards - to be forgotten - but just for now -
 She lifts her head to his. She meets his eyes.
Queen Elizabeth I:「A kiss?」

narrator:INT. ELIZABETH'S BEDCHAMBER, WHITEHALL PALACE - NIGHT 104
 104 Elizabeth starts up in bed, calls out in sudden fear.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Air! I must have air!」

narrator:Grey Revisions 22 June -p.90
Queen Elizabeth I:「This Spanish Armada is at sea carrying an army of ten thousand men. (indicating on the map) The Duke of Parma has fifteen
 thousand men on the French coast.
 WALSINGHAM
 They plan to cross the Channel in
 barges, under the protection of
 the Spanish fleet, and sail up
 the Thames.
 ELIZABETH」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft -p.91
WALSINGHAM:「How did you know about the numbers of the Dutch barges, majesty? I don't recall supplying you with that information.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「You may observe, Walsingham, that I don't see my way with only one eye. Nor do I hop along on only one leg. Why then would I rely on only one source of information?」

Queen Elizabeth I:「You traitress! You dare to have
 secrets from me! I am your Queen!
 You ask my permission before you rut - before you marry - before you breed! My bitches wear my collars! Do you hear me? How dare you be with child!」
narrator:Walsingham comes hobbling up.
WALSINGHAM:「Majesty, please! Dignity - mercy -」
narrator:But Elizabeth is too far gone. She turns on him, eyes blazing.
Queen Elizabeth I:「This is no time for mercy! That's what you said to me. I don't forget. But you showed mercy, Walsingham! Go to your traitor brother, and leave me to my business! W alsingham turns white. Elizabeth is back berating Bess.
 Is it his child? Tell me! Say it! Is the child his? Tell me! Say it! Is it his?」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft -p.93
 Raleigh has come up to them unnoticed. He has seen and heard all. He speaks to Elizabeth quietly, sadly.
RALEIGH:「This is not the Queen I love and serve.」
narrator:Elizabeth stares at him. He meets her eyes. His gaze is so unflinching that slowly the madness drains out of her. When she speaks next, she is her proud self again.
Queen Elizabeth I:「This gentleman has seduced a lady
 under my care. This lady has
 married without my consent. These are offences punishable by law. (to Walsingham) Arrest him.」

narrator:A
 112A
 INT. DEE'S HOUSE - DUSK
 Dr Dee watches as Elizabeth prowls his cluttered rooms, releasing the tension that has swelled to bursting point within her.
Queen Elizabeth I:「The fall of an empire, you told me. Did you mean the English empire? Because by God, England will not fall while I am Queen! If that's your prophecy, sir, prophesy again!」

narrator:May 1 Blue Draft -p.94
Queen Elizabeth I:「I will not be a toy of the fates! Have I not faced an assassin's bullet and lived?」
narrator:She turns to Dr Dee and sees his quizzical gaze on her, and she lets her rage pass. E LIZABETH Just tell me there's no certainty. The shadows of ghosts, you said. Any outcome is possible. Give me hope.
DEE:「The forces that shape the world are greater than all of us, majesty. How can I promise you that they'll conspire in your favour, even though you are the Queen? But this much I know. When the storm breaks, each man acts in accordance with his own nature. Some are dumb with terror. Some flee. Some hide. And some spread their wings like eagles and soar on the wind.」
narrator:Elizabeth understands. She draws herself up, finding now the self-belief she needs for the battle to come.
Queen Elizabeth I:「You're a wise man, Dr Dee.」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S TENT, TILBURY - DAY 122
 122 The Queen's advisers mill round Elizabeth. Walsingham is
 seated in the background.
 ELIZABETH Are our ships at sea? Has the fleet left Plymouth? That can't be so hard to know.
 ADMIRAL WINTER enters, out of breath, clutching the latest
 reports.
 ADMIRAL WINTER The enemy has been engaged, majesty.
 He reads as he speaks. The news is not so good after all.
 ADMIRAL WINTER
 A brave action. Two ships lost.
Queen Elizabeth I:「With what gain?」

narrator:INT. QUEEN'S TENT, TILBURY - DAY 125
 125 Elizabeth among her advisers. An air of mounting panic.
 WALSINGHAM
 The Spanish are barely a day away, majesty.
HATTON:「t would be wise to withdraw to safer ground.」
narrator:Grey Revision 22 June - p.99
 WALSINGHAM
 I beg you to appreciate the gravity of the situation, majesty. There is very little time.
 Elizabeth turns on him, calm and defiant.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Then we must act.」

narrator:Goldenrod revision 1 June - p.100 ELIZABETHSoon now we will meet them face
 to face. In that encounter,
 England lives, or England dies. I
 am resolved in the midst and heat
 of the battle to live or die
 amongst you all!
 A cheer from the men.
 ELIZABETH While we stand together no invader shall pass. Let them come with all the armies of Hell, they will not pass.
 The crowd gives another mighty cheer.
Queen Elizabeth I:「So let us sound the advance and」

narrator:INT. WALSINGHAM'S BEDROOM, LONDON - DAY 157
 157 Walsingham lies in bed, his eyes closed. His wife Ursula and daughter Mary in the background. He's dying. E lizabeth has come to him. She looks down on him with deep concern.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Francis. My old friend.」

narrator:INT. WALSINGHAM'S BEDROOM, LONDON - DAY 160
 160 Walsingham speaks to his Queen with difficulty.
WALSINGHAM:「I have served your majesty - in all things...」
Queen Elizabeth I:「I know it, old friend. Don't leave me now.」
narrator:Walsingham's eyes open. A weak smile.
WALSINGHAM:「Y ou don't need me any more. Permission - to go -」
narrator:Elizabeth looks tenderly down on him, shaking her head.
Queen Elizabeth I:「You always did do as you pleased, whether I wanted it or not. I've no doubt you'll do as you please now.」

narrator:Now in his solitary dance Raleigh turns, and we see he's holding a new-born BABY BOY. He kisses the baby's little bald head, and sings his wordless song.
 Footsteps outside. The door opens, and a royal servant enters, followed by other servants and guards.
 OYAL SERVANT Her majesty the Queen!
 Elizabeth enters, in formal style. She stands and takes in the scene - Raleigh holding his baby son - the room beyond - Bess rises at once and comes through to make her curtsey to
 the Queen. Elizabeth seems not to see her.
 A regal wave at the servants and guards. They withdraw.
 Elizabeth stalks round the room. No reason to suppose her displeasure has passed.
Queen Elizabeth I:「When was the birth?」
RALEIGH:「F our nights ago.」
Queen Elizabeth I:「The mother is well?」
RALEIGH:「Thank God.」
narrator:Now Elizabeth turns to Bess, and their eyes meet. The Queen
 puts out her hand and touches Bess lightly on one cheek. A
 silent forgiveness.
Queen Elizabeth I:「And the child?」
RALEIGH:「My son is well.」
narrator:Now for the first time she looks at the baby.
Queen Elizabeth I:「Your Elizabeth has a child. You
 must be proud.」

narrator:
Queen Elizabeth I:「And fulfilled?
 RALEIGH
 As any man can be.
 Elizabeth looks at him in silence for a long moment.
 ELIZABETH And do you still dream of your shining city, your New World?
 ALEIGH More than ever.
 She turns to go. But before she reaches the door, she stops.」
