narrator:「EXT. WORK FARM - NIGHTFALL
 All we SEE is an ELEVATED SHOT of the distant mountains, rolling landscape and McMURPHY -- one cheek laid-open and crusted over with dried blood, his face and prison work clothes caked with dried sweat and dust -- as he sits on the very top of a water tower watching the last rays of sunlight.
 A long moment passes before McMurphy's attention is drawn elsewhere and he looks down.
 REVERSE SHOT - McMURPHY'S POV
 Far below, in the prison yard a MAN is SEEN hurrying acrcss the yard where he joins a group of men composed of armed prison guards, officials, and medics -- a stretcher, an ambulance, a fire truck and safety nets spread out at the base of the water tower. The man is seen talking to the officials, then a bullhorn is handed to him and they all look up at McMurphy.
 McMURPHY
 As he looks down at them, a searchlight is turned on him.
 MAN (V.O.) (through bullhorn) McMurphy! This is Doctor Shankle, from the infirmary. Can you hear me?
 McMurphy doesn't respond.
 SHANKLE (V.O.) (through bullhorn) Can you hear me, McMurphy?
 McMurphy doesn't respond. Another searchlight goes on as a SECOND VOICE is PICKED UP on the BULLHORN.
 SECOND VOICE (through bullhorn) Why don't we blast 'im, for Christ sake, he ain't gonna come down... you...
 The BULLHORN is TURNED OFF. A long moment passes as McMurphy continues to squat on the tower and wait. He shivers against the coming night when...
 SHANKLE (V.O.) (through bullhorn) McMurphy! I have the warden's promise. If you come down, nobody will hurt you! You'll be in my custody! I promise!
 An imperceptible smile appears on McMurphy's face.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - OREGON STATE HOSPITAL - DAWN
 Strange HUMMING SOUNDS, CLANKING PIPES and HISSING RADIATORS as we see beds, with patients lying asleep, line two walls. The third wall is a heavy gauge steel grill, with a door that opens on to the day room. The door is open. On the far side of the day room, a long hallway with other doors opening into rooms: the latrine, washroom, tub room, mess hall, seclusion room, psychiatrist's office, visitors' room, etc.
 Across the day room, a glass enclosed nurses' station where TURKLE, a Negro night attendant, is seen preparing to go off duty.
 The CAMERA PANS the beds in the men's dorm. One man turns, another twists, a third lies as if dead.
 CAMERA PAN ENDS on BROMDEN, who lies still, eyes wide open, very alert. He reaches down, plucks a stale piece of gum from under the bed frame, puts it in his mouth and starts chewing.
 A beat, then Bromden carefully undoes the leather strap which binds him to the bed. He slips out of bed and quietly makes his way down the aisle, paying no attention to the other patients, some of who are beginning to stir awake.
 Ahead, at the end of the hallway, the door opens and three Negro day attendants, WASHINGTON, WARREN and MILLER, dressed in white uniforms, enter and move down the hallway and disappear into a side room.
 Bromden continues his silent journey towards the day room as Turkle emerges from the side door to the nurses' lounge, goes up the hallway as MISS PILBOW, the day nurse, comes in, passing Turkle on the way out. She crosses to the nurses' station and enters as Bromden reaches the day room.
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 as Bromden makes his way across the day room, past the nurses' station, unnoticed by Miss Pilbow who is busy preparing the day's medication.
 Bromden is sliding along the hallway wall, when he is suddenly cut off by a mop which THUDS against one side of his neck. A second mop yokes him on the other side. Bromden freezes. Terrified.
 MILLER Where you goin', Chief?
 WARREN You goin' t'see the Big White Fathuh?」

WASHINGTON:「He goin' t'see the Big White Muthuh...」
narrator:They cackle, legs jiving, as the ammonia stings Bromden's eyes and burns his nose. He tries to twist his head, but Washington jams the mop harder. Bromden freezes, panic spreading across his face.
WASHINGTON:「Haw, look at 'im, big 'nough to eat apples off my head an' he mine me like a baby...」
narrator:A KEY is HEARD hitting the lock in the main door. Washington very adroitly releases Bromden, hands him the mop, and turns, along with Warren and Miller, to their duties, as BIG NURSE enters the ward.
 THREE ATTENDANTS (simultaneously, as Big Nurse passes) Mornin', Miss Ratched...
BIG NURSE:「Good morning, boys.」
narrator:She sweeps by and disappears into the nurses' station. The three attendants put their mops and rags aside and start towards the men's dorm, leaving Bromden pressed against the wall, mop in hand.
 INT. NURSES' STATION
 as Big Nurse enters to be greeted by Miss Pilbow, who wears an enormous cross between her breasts.
MISS PILBOW:「Good morning, Miss Ratched. It's a beautiful day, isn't it?」
BIG NURSE:「Mean old Monday, Miss Pilbow, mean old Monday... (she flips on the intercom) Good morning, boys. Rise and shine. Rise and shine.」
narrator:INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY
 as Washington, Warren and Miller roust the patients out of bed.
BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (through loudspeaker) Time to get up! Come on now, it's a beautiful day! Let's not straggle! Everybody up, up, up!」
narrator:The Chronics are physically helped out of bed as the Acutes, who can handle themselves, cross out into the Day Room, rubbing the sleep out of their eyes. Big Nurse steps out of the Nurses' Station. Washington and Warren are hustling the patients toward the washroom.
 Miller stays behind, stripping Blastic's bed and rolling up his mattress.
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 as the Acutes straggle past Big Nurse.
BIG NURSE:「Good morning, Mister Sefelt... Good morning, Mister Fredrickson. Good morning, Billy, I spoke to your mother last night and she sends her love... Good morning, Mister Harding... Good morning, Mister Cheswick. Mister Scanlon...」
narrator:Bromden comes drifting by, going in the opposite direction. Big Nurse takes his hand and reaches up and pats his face.
BIG NURSE:「Oh, Mister Bromden... (calling out) Mister Washington!」
narrator:Washington comes running.
WASHINGTON:「Yes, Miss Ratched?」
BIG NURSE:「Mister Washington, why don't we get a good head start on the day by shaving Mister Bromden and see if we can't avoid a disturbance.」
WASHINGTON:「taking Bromden by the hand) Yes, Miss Ratched...」

narrator:INT. WASHROOM - DAY
 The patients are busy washing and shaving.
 Warren is assisting a vegetable wash himself as Washington guides Bromden through a cage-like partition... where an antique barber chair stands.
WASHINGTON:「calling as he goes) Warren!」
narrator:He sits Bromden down and straps his bands and legs in, then plugs the electric shaver in and turns it on and brings the BUZZING instrument towards Bromden's face. Bromden turns away.
WASHINGTON:「(shouting out) Get your black ass in here!」
narrator:Warren props the vegetable up against the sink.
 WARREN Tha's it... be right back!
 Warren leaves; the old man starts sliding.
 QUICK CUT TO:
 BROMDEN
 as Warren enters and takes a firm grip on Bromden's head and Washington goes to work on Bromden's face. CAMERA PUSHES INTO EXTREME CLOSEUP of Bromden's fearfully distorted face as the BUZZING SOUND of the electric razor INTENSIFIES until it is INSUPPORTABLE.
 QUICK CUT TO:
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 No sound as we SEE Big Nurse watch the last few patients file past the side door to the Nurses' Station where Miss Pilbow hands out little cups with pills. Washington stands by, checking to see each man takes his pills before filling their cups with orange juice. The last patient takes his pills and returns to his place in the Day Room. Miss Pilbow closes the window.
 Satisfied that all is well, Big Nurse turns on an old 45 record player with a stack of records, then she settles down to her work as a SOFT, NOSTALGIC NUMBER from the '40's is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER. CAMERA BEGINS SLOW PAN of the Day Room.
 The patients, under the influence of drugs, have settled down for the day. HARDING is playing cards with MARTINI, CHESWICK and BILLY. SEFELT and FREDRICKSON are putting a jigsaw puzzle together in brotherly love. SORENSEN is off by himself, rubbing his hands clean. TABER, pencil in hand, sits pondering over a blank piece of paper. SCANLON paces back and forth. On the Chronics' side of the room, RUCKLY is turning a grimy photograph over in his hands. BANCINI sits wagging his head, mumbling over and over, "Tired, awful tired..." ELLIS stands against the wall, arms outstretched, hands nailed to the wall by imaginary nails.
 Bromden is pushing a mop around.
 Washington, Warren and Miller are in the men's dorm making up the Chronics' beds when O.S. the TELEPHONE RINGS.
 CUT TO:
 INT. NURSES' STATION - DAY
 as Miss Pilbow picks up the phone.
MISS PILBOW:「Eighty-two, Miss Pilbow speaking... Yes... (she makes a note and hangs it) ... New admission, Miss Ratched...」
narrator:Miss Pilbow goes to the mirror, quickly preens herself, then turns and flips the intercom on.
MISS PILBOW:「(over loudspeaker) Mister Washington! Mister Warren!」

narrator:She exits.
 CUT TO:
 INT. DAY ROOM
 as Miss Pilbow exits nurses' station and heads down the hallway, Washington and Warren on her heels. Miller looking wistfully after them.
 CUT TO:
 INT. MAIN ENTRANCE - STATE HOSPITAL - DAY
 Staff personnel are SEEN moving in and out of the main entrance where a state penitentiary car is parked. A DEPUTY SHERIFF leans on the fender smoking a cigarette as SECOND DEPUTY SHERIFF comes out of the building and motions down to First Deputy, who crushes his cigarette out, then opens the rear door to the car.
 DEPUTY SHERIFF (to an unseen occupant) Okay, let's go.
 A long beat, then McMurphy slowly emerges from the car. He's wearing handcuffs and dressed in faded jeans, flannel work shirt, leather jacket, black motorcycle cap, and heavy black boots. He's been scrubbed clean and has a Band-Aid on his cheek. McMurphy does a couple of knee bends to get the kinks out of his legs as Deputy reaches in the car and takes out a small gym bag containing McMurphy's belongings.
 DEPUTY SHERIFF Let's move it...
 McMurphy goes up the stairs, followed by the Deputy, and crosses into the building.
 INT. MAIN BUILDING - DAY
 as McMurphy enters the building followed by the Deputies, where Nurse Pilbow, McMurphy's folder in hand, and Washington and Warren stand waiting -- all in a pleasant, receptive mood. First Deputy hands McMurphy's gym bag to Washington, who hands it to Warren.
 SECOND DEPUTY Okay, this is it!
 McMurphy turns and holds out his hands. As cuffs are removed, McMurphy impulsively takes hold of the Deputy's head and plants a kiss on his forehead.
 SECOND DEPUTY (squirming out of McMurphy's grasp) Jesus, you're crazy, McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, ain't that the truth.」

narrator:DEPUTY SHERIFF (to Miss Pilbow) He's all yours, Miss.
MISS PILBOW:「Thank you, Officer...」
narrator:The two Deputies start down the stairs.
Randle McMurphy:「So long, fellas...」
narrator:The two Deputies merely shrug their backs at McMurphy who takes a deep breath of fresh air.
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, sir, it's a mighty nice fall day...」
MISS PILBOW:「This way, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, ma'am...」
narrator:McMurphy follows Nurse Pilbow into the hallway as the door closes behind them.
 CUT TO:
 INT. HALLWAY - DAY
 Other STAFF MEMBERS are administrative personnel are SEEN as McMurphy walks alongside Nurse Pilbow, who is noticeably nervous by his close proximity. Washington and Warren casually bringing up the rear.
Randle McMurphy:「as he peels the Band-Aid off, revealing a scar) I tell ya, these goons showered me at the courthouse this morning, last night at the jail, and I swear they'd have swabbed my ears out on the way over if they could've found the facilities...」
narrator:A young Japanese nurse, named ITSU, passes by.

Randle McMurphy:「(to Nurse Itsu) Hey, how ya doin', cutie?」
NURSE ITSU:「Okay. How you doing?」
Randle McMurphy:「Just great! (calling after her) See ya around!」
narrator:Nurse Itsu laughs and disappears around the corner.
Randle McMurphy:「(to Nurse Pilbow) Yes, sir, I sure am gonna enjoy my stay here.」
MISS PILBOW:「I'm sure you will.」
Randle McMurphy:「to Nurse Pilbow) Ya know, I ain't never been in an institution of psychology before.」
MISS PILBOW:「Oh...」
narrator:They arrive at the ward door. Nurse Pilbow unlocks the door and opens it as...
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, I'm here on a ninety-day observation period. Short-timer, like they say...」
narrator:Soft nostalgic MUSIC is HEARD OVER.
MISS PILBOW:「Of course. (indicating door) Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「After you, ma'am.」
MISS PILBOW:「Thank you.」

narrator:Nurse Pilbow enters the ward and McMurphy watches her cross the visitors' area to a heavy-gauge steel screen wall, with security gate which she opens.
Randle McMurphy:「to Washington and Warren as they step into ward) Man, there sure is an awful lot of poontang around here.」
SPIVEY:「calling) Hold it!」
narrator:McMurphy turns to see DOCTOR SPIVEY approaching.
SPIVEY:「Good morning, boys.」
narrator:WASHINGTON AND WARREN (simultaneously as Spivey passes into the ward) Mornin', Doctor Spivey.
SPIVEY:「Great day for fishing.」
narrator:WASHINGTON AND WARREN (simultaneously) Yes, sir!
 The door closes. CAMERA HOLDS on sign that READS:
 SMILE AT THE NEXT FACE YOU SEE. IT MAY SAVE HIS LIFE.
Randle McMurphy:「O.S.) Yeah, I was just thinking the same thing, Doc...」
narrator:CUT TO:
 INT. WARD - DAY
 as McMurphy, Spivey, Washington and Warren cross the visitors' area towards Nurse Pilbow, who stands holding the security gate open. At the far end of the hallway, which opens into the day room, patients can be seen.

SPIVEY:「to McMurphy) Oh, what's that?」
Randle McMurphy:「Why, I'll betcha there must be a million albacore and tuna running of the coast right this minute.」
SPIVEY:「Oh, do you do much fishing?」
narrator:As they pass through the security gate:
Randle McMurphy:「Fish! Hell, Doc, I'd like to have a nickel for every fish I landed between Point Conception and the Alaska coast...」
narrator:Washington and Warren continue down the hallway, passing SEFELT, who shyly approaches and waits at a respectful distance.
SPIVEY:「to McMurphy) Is that so?」
Randle McMurphy:「Yup! Worked right outta Depoe Bay for just about every season since I was able to haul my own weight.」
SPIVEY:「My, my... Ah, who are you?」
Randle McMurphy:「McMurphy, Doc. R.P. McMurphy.」
narrator:They shake hands.
NURSE PILBOW:「Mister McMurphy is a new admission.」
SPIVEY:「Ah, yes. Well, we must talk soon, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「You bet, Doc.」

narrator:Spivey turns to Sefelt.
SPIVEY:「Good morning, Jim. How are you feeling?」
SEFELT:「approaching and pointing to his mouth) Doc, my gungs hurt me.」
narrator:Spivey starts checking out Sefelt's mouth.
NURSE PILBOW:「This way, Mister McMurphy.」
narrator:As McMurphy follows Nurse Pilbow down the hall, Spivey's voice trails after him.
SPIVEY:「O.S.) Have you been taking your Dilantin, Jim?」
SEFELT:「O.S.) Uh-huh...」
SPIVEY:「O.S.) Well, we'll send you over to the dentist and see what he can do. Okay?」
SEFELT:「O.S.) Okay, Doc!」
narrator:McMurphy and Nurse Pilbow reach the day room.
MISS PILBOW:「Make yourself at home, Mister McMurphy...」
Randle McMurphy:「Thank you, ma'am,」

narrator:Nurse Pilbow enters the nurses' station, closing the door behind her. Next to the door is a bulletin board which, among other bits of information, READS:
 TODAY IS MONDAY SEPTEMBER 30, 1963. THE NEXT MEAL IS LUNCH. THE NEXT HOLIDAY IS HALLOWEEN.
 Another notice READS:
 SIGN UP NOW! BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT STAFF VS PATIENTS. Washington, Warren, Miller
 There are no other names listed. Sefelt passes by.
Randle McMurphy:「Hi.」
SEFELT:「Hi.」

narrator:Sefelt crosses into the day room where he joins Fredrickson, who is putting a jigsaw puzzle together.
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 as McMurphy drifts into the room and looks around. The room is as it was. The MUSIC ENDS. There is a CLICK. McMurphy's attention is drawn to the nurses' station.
 McMURPHY'S POV OF NURSES' STATION
 where Miss Pilbow is SEEN through a large plate glass window, busy typing a nameplate for McMurphy.
 Big Nurse, her back to McMurphy, is turning over a stack of records. She presses the phonograph button. A record falls on the turntable and MUSIC BEGINS as she turns and sees McMurphy.
 ANOTHER ANGLE
 McMurphy smiles and tips his hat to Big Nurse.
 Big Nurse smiles back and takes her seat.
 McMurphy turns and drifts into the day room.
 Big Nurse looks up and studies him.
 McMurphy catches the eye of a PATIENT, sitting by himself.
Randle McMurphy:「How ya doin', buddy?」
narrator:PATIENT Poorly, thank you.
Randle McMurphy:「Oh, yeah? What's ailing ya?」
narrator:PATIENT I got the fever.
Randle McMurphy:「Well, that's too bad...」

narrator:Taber, pencil and paper in hand, crosses to McMurphy and taps him on the shoulder.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, buddy?」
TABER:「Are you a doctor?」
Randle McMurphy:「No, 'fraid not...」
narrator:Taber walks away.
 Martini tugs at McMurphy's sleeve.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, buddy?」
MARTINI:「Can you borrow me a dime?」
Randle McMurphy:「Sorry, buddy, I'm clean outta change...」
narrator:Scanlon moves in.
SCANLON:「Got a cigarette?」
Randle McMurphy:「Sure...」
MARTINI:「Me too! Me too!」
narrator:As McMurphy hands out his cigarettes Bromden drifts by, mop in hand.
Randle McMurphy:「Hey, how's it look up there, big boy?」
SCANLON:「He can't hear you. He's just a deaf and dumb Indian!」
Randle McMurphy:「That right?」
HARDING:「O.S.) Martini, it's your turn!」
narrator:Martini is staring off into space.
HARDING:「O.S.) Martini!」

Randle McMurphy:「to Martini) Your buddy is callin' ya.」
narrator:Martini crosses back to the card game as Taber returns.
Randle McMurphy:「What's troubling ya, buddy?」
TABER:「I want you to write me a letter to my brother for a hundred dollars to bury me.」
Randle McMurphy:「You look pretty healthy to me.」
TABER:「I'm the next one.」
Randle McMurphy:「How do ya know that?」
TABER:「Because I quit breathing.」
Randle McMurphy:「You're breathin' right now.」
narrator:Taber walks away.
 McMurphy watches him go.
 Nearby, an OLD VEGETABLE squeaks.
Randle McMurphy:「crossing to him) What's that, Pop?」
narrator:The old man squeaks again.
Randle McMurphy:「leaning in close) Can't hear ya, old-timer.」
narrator:OLD VEGETABLE Ain't this a pisser?
Randle McMurphy:「Hell, compared to where I just come from, this is a country club.」
narrator:McMurphy crosses to the card game and stands watching the game.

Randle McMurphy:「Whatcha boys playin'?」
BILLY:「H-H-Hearts.」
Randle McMurphy:「Shoot! No wonder you don't care nothin' 'bout showin' your hand.」
narrator:Billy holds his hand close to his chest.
Randle McMurphy:「What's your name, buddy?」
BILLY:「B-B-Billy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Well, put 'er there, Billy boy, my name's McMurphy.」
narrator:They shake hands.
Randle McMurphy:「What I wanna know is who's the top loony around here?」
BILLY:「Y-Y-You m-mean th-the pr-president of the P-P-Patients C-Council?」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, that'll do for openers!」
BILLY:「(to Harding) H-H-Harding, the m-m-man w-wants to t-talk to you, y-you're the pr-pr pr...」
HARDING:「Does he have an appointment?」
CHESWICK:「Yeah, do you have an appointment?」
Randle McMurphy:「What for?」
CHESWICK:「to Harding) What for?」

HARDING:「I'm a busy man!」
CHESWICK:「to McMurphy) He's a busy man!」
narrator:A beat; then:
Randle McMurphy:「I can wait...」
narrator:McMurphy picks up a chair and sits down right next to Harding and looks at him. Another beat; then:
HARDING:「to McMurphy) What are you doing?」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm seeing what a busy man does.」
narrator:Harding, very nervous at McMurphy's proximity, turns back to the game.
HARDING:「Your turn, Martini!」
narrator:Martini is lost in the clouds.
HARDING:「Martini, throw a card!」
narrator:Martini throws a diamond.
HARDING:「No, throw a club!」
CHESWICK:「Yeah, throw a club!」
narrator:Martini throws a spade.
HARDING:「Don't you have any clubs?」
MARTINI:「No!」
HARDING:「Let me see your hand!」
MARTINI:「No!」

HARDING:「slamming his cards) Well, if you gentlemen will excuse me, I have some pressing matters to attend to.」
narrator:Harding gets up and crosses to the hallway, gathering his pride as he goes.
 McMurphy slides into Harding's seat and rakes all the cards in.
Randle McMurphy:「Yessir, that's why I came to this establishment for, to bring you birds fun and entertainment 'round the gamin' table...」
narrator:McMurphy fans the deck out and lays it on the table. Everyone's eyes pop as he scoops the cards up in one movement -- he's a card shark, a magician -- leaving the Acutes with their mouths hanging open.
Randle McMurphy:「Easy now, don't smudge 'em, we got lots of games ahead of us...」
BIG NURSE:「O.S.) Mister McMurphy!」
narrator:McMurphy turns to see Big Nurse approaching, Washington casually bringing up the rear.
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, ma'am...」
BIG NURSE:「(handing him his bag) Will you come with me, please.」
Randle McMurphy:「rising) Hold the fort down, will ya, fellas!」
BILLY:「Sure, Mack!」

narrator:McMurphy walks with her toward the men's dorm.
BIG NURSE:「My name is Miss Ratched. I'm the head nurse here. You've already met Miss Pilbow and Aides Washington and Warren.」
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, ma'am.」
narrator:Big Nurse and McMurphy stop at the security gate to the men's dorm where Miller opens the gate.
BIG NURSE:「Mister Miller, this is Mister McMurphy, who'll be staying with us.」
narrator:Greetings are exchanged as they pass through.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY
 as Big Nurse and McMurphy cross down the aisle.
BIG NURSE:「We do appreciate the way you have taken it upon yourself to meet the other patients.」
Randle McMurphy:「Thank you, ma'am...」
narrator:Big Nurse stops at an empty bed where Warren is turning the mattress down.
BIG NURSE:「This is your bed. You may leave your things in that cabinet.」
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, ma'am...」
BIG NURSE:「Please use your time to familiarize yourself with your new home and if there is anything you need to know, don't hesitate to ask us.」

Randle McMurphy:「Now that you mention it, I sure would like to call my aunt up in Portland and tell 'er where I am so she can come visit me.」
narrator:BIG NURSE All in good time, Mister McMurphy. All in good time.
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, ma'am.」
narrator:BIG NURSE Good. Now if you'll just go along with Mister Washington, he'll see that you're properly oriented.
 McMurphy doesn't move.
BIG NURSE:「Is there anything else?」
Randle McMurphy:「Just that I'm glad to be here, Miss Ratched. I really am.」
narrator:BIG NURSE Good. I'm sure we'll be friends.
 They smile, sizing up each other.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, you ain't half so bad looking for a head nurse.」
BIG NURSE:「Yes. Now go along, Mister McMurphy. Go along.」
Randle McMurphy:「Yes, ma'am. (to Washington) Lead the way, Sam.」
narrator:They cross out of the men's dorm.
 Big Nurse watches them go.
SPIVEY:「V.O.) What other work have you done?」

narrator:INT. DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE - DAY
 Doctor Spivey is seated behind his desk, on which are several glass-framed photos of Spivey's family, plus a nameplate: JOHN M. SPIVEY, M.D., and McMurphy's papers.
 McMurphy, freshly showered and wearing hospital-issue clothes, sits facing him.
Randle McMurphy:「Hell, Doc, I've been everything from a hoopla man with a two-bit carny show to a top mechanic and bull goose catskinner for every gypo loggin' operation in the Northwest till the Army taught me what my natural bent was.」
SPIVEY:「Oh, what was that?」
Randle McMurphy:「Poker!」
narrator:SPIVEY I see.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, but you know how society persecutes a dedicated man.」
SPIVEY:「In what way?」
Randle McMurphy:「They say I'm a habitual hassler. Like I fight some. Sheeut. They didn't mind so much when I was a dumb logger and got into a hassle. That's a hardworkin' feller blowing off steam, they say. But if you're a gambler, all you have to do is spit slantwise and you're a goddamned criminal.」

SPIVEY:「I see...」
Randle McMurphy:「To tell the truth, ever since I found my natural callin' I done time in so many small-time jails I could write a brochure...」
narrator:SPIVEY Yes... Ah, do you know why you're here?
Randle McMurphy:「Well, ya know, Doc... (indicating his papers) Doesn't it say so there?」
narrator:SPIVEY (looking over papers) Well, according to the Warden at Pendleton, you were a disturbing influence on others. 'It appears that there is a potential in him for instigating a revolt among the other inmates.' (looking up at McMurphy) What do you think of that report?
Randle McMurphy:「I don't, Doc...」
narrator:SPIVEY (goes back to papers) Arrested on an assault charge five times...
Randle McMurphy:「That's correct, Doc ...」
SPIVEY:「reading from folder) The doctor at the prison states: 'Don't overlook the possibility that this man may be faking psychosis to escape the drudgery of the work farm...' What do you say to that?」
Randle McMurphy:「Doc, what can I tell ya?」

SPIVEY:「Ah, it seems you have no other psychiatric history, Mister Murphy?」
Randle McMurphy:「No, this is my first trip, Doc.」
SPIVEY:「closes folder and sits back) Well, you're here for a ninety-day observation period, Mister McMurphy. I'd like you to understand you are here on a court order and we are responsible to the state. So, I'd like your cooperation!」
Randle McMurphy:「You bet, Doc!」
SPIVEY:「Good. Good.」
narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 CAMERA is on Big Nurse as she stands, in front of a chair, doing a deep breathing exercise.
 The patients and staff, standing in front of chairs arranged in a circle, follow suit as best they can. After a couple of exercises Big Nurse sits. The others do the same except Bancini, who remains standing, wagging his head back and forth.
BANCINI:「I'm tired. Whew. O Lord. Oh, I'm awful tired...」
BIG NURSE:「busy with her papers) Somebody please see to Mister Bancini, so we can start the meeting.」
narrator:Billy does... gently laying a hand on Bancini.
BILLY:「T-t-t-take it e-e-easy, P-P-P Pete...」

BANCINI:「Awful tired...」
narrator:Billy gently eases Bancini into his chair and sits beside him, patting his skinny knee.
BIG NURSE:「At the close of Friday's meeting, we were discussing Mister Harding's problem, concerning his wife... (reading from logbook) Mister Harding stated that his wife made him uneasy because she drew stares from men on the street. Is that correct, Mister Harding?」
HARDING:「Yes, that's perfectly correct.」
BIG NURSE:「reading) He also thinks he may have given her reason to seek sexual attention elsewhere, but he didn't say how. He has been heard to say to his wife, 'I hate you, I don't ever want to see you again. You've betrayed me.' (she closes book) So. Does anyone care to touch upon this further?」
narrator:Big Nurse waits. A long beat.
 Harding sits, chewing his nails, tensely waiting, almost wanting someone to begin.
 The patients shift uncomfortably, looking in all directions.
 McMurphy looks around to see what will follow, when he sees Ellis, nailed to the wall; his pants leg darkens and a puddle of piss forms at his feet. McMurphy looks to see if Big Nurse or the Aides have noticed.
 If they have, no one pays any attention.
 McMurphy fidgets in his seat, then gets up, crosses to Ellis, unhooks him from the wall, and moves him over a few feet.
 The other patients are aghast at this move, look at each other quizzically.
 Big Nurse merely watches.
 McMurphy crosses back to his chair and sits.
BIG NURSE:「Mister McMurphy, this ward is a democratic community run by the patients and their votes, so you should feel at ease in your new surroundings to the extent you can freely discuss emotional problems in front of the patients and staff. However, the cardinal rule, and I must emphasize this: Everyone keeps their seat during the meeting!」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, well, it just pains me somethin' awful to see a full growed man sloshing around in his own water...」

BIG NURSE:「Yes... We were discussing Mister Harding's problem with his wife. Now, who will start? (no response) Billy.」
BILLY:「M-m-m-ma'am?」
BIG NURSE:「Would you like to start?」
BILLY:「N-n-n-n-n-no, ma'am.」
BIG NURSE:「Mister Sefelt?」
narrator:Sefelt shrugs and sinks into his seat.
BIG NURSE:「Mister Fredrickson?」
narrator:Fredrickson passes.
BIG NURSE:「Mister Taber?」
narrator:Taber passes.
BIG NURSE:「Mister Martini?」
MARTINI:「No!」
BIG NURSE:「Mister Scanlon?」
narrator:Scanlon looks at the floor.
BIG NURSE:「Mister Cheswick?」
narrator:Cheswick wags his head 'no.'
BIG NURSE:「Am I to take it that there isn't a man among you who has an opinion concerning this matter? (no response; she focuses in on Harding) Mister Harding, you've stated on more than one occasion that you suspected your wife of seeing other men.」
HARDING:「Yes, Miss Ratched, this is correct.」
BIG NURSE:「But you have no proof.」
HARDING:「No, Miss Ratched...」
BIG NURSE:「And yet you suspect her.」
HARDING:「Yes, that is correct.」
BIG NURSE:「Why?」
HARDING:「I can only speculate as to the reasons why.」
BIG NURSE:「Have you ever speculated, Mister Harding, that you are impatient with your wife because she does not meet your mental requirements?」
narrator:One of the Chronics laughs like a child.
HARDING:「Miss Ratched. Given all the conditions of that sublime relationship, coupled with the subsequent annihilation of all that I held to be sacred, mentally, physically and emotionally, the only thing that I can speculate on, at this late date, is how I will justify the very existence of my life, with or without my dear wife.」
SEFELT:「What's he talkin' about?」
TABER:「Yeah, Harding, why don't you knockoff the bullshit and get to the point.」
narrator:Several Acutes chime in, "Yeah, get to the point," AD LIB.
HARDING:「The point is, I will carry on until I fully understand what the function of that relationship is regardless of form or content.」
narrator:Several hands go up.
BIG NURSE:「Yes, Billy?」
BILLY:「I-I-I-I-I d-d-don't s-s-see how anyone could lu-lu-lu-love a man who t-t-t-talks the way he does.」
TABER:「Yeah, Harding, you're so fuckin' dumb I can't believe it.」
HARDING:「That's a matter of opinion.」

SEFELT:「Yeah, Harding, where do you breathe anyway?」
FREDRICKSON:「Through the ass.」
narrator:Sefelt and Fredrickson snicker into their hands. A few of the others laugh.
HARDING:「smarting) Is that your sense of humor or are you trying to say something?」
FREDRICKSON:「innocence itself) Now what would I be trying to say?」
HARDING:「I don't know. I don't know, but it makes me feel very peculiar when you throw in something like that.」
FREDRICKSON:「Peculiar?」
SEFELT:「Why?」
TABER:「Yeah, why?」
SCANLON:「Yeah, tell us why.」
HARDING:「I hesitate to go on.」
BIG NURSE:「No secrets, Mister Harding. Let's get it all out in the open...」
HARDING:「I mean, the other day you made an allusion to my wife and the possible sexual problems we might be having. I know that to be the case, but the way in which you broached it, if that's your idea of teaching me something...
 (his voice rising as he goes on) ... or making me aware of a condition in my life, then I say, categorically speaking, the hell with you, Taber! I don't have to justify the condition of my life to you or any of you. No matter what I will carry on until I fully understand what that function is regardless of the form or content. Regardless of the fact we must try to understand the function of our capacity to obtain, to personify the condition, the condition of our existence, our existence...」
TABER:「You know what, Harding? I think you're some kind of morbid asshole or something. You've been talking about your wife evere since I can remember. You know, she's on your mind and blah, blah, blah and on and on and when are you going to wise up and turn her loose!」
FREDRICKSON:「Yeah, wise up, Harding.」
SEFELT:「Yeah, turn her loose!」
narrator:ACUTES (start pouring it on) Yeah, who do you think you are anyway?... He thinks he's God Almighty... He's a snob... He's a schmuck... Dumbbell... Creep... Cretin... Idiot... Get rid of him... Ship him upstairs...
 RUCKLY (chiming in) Ffffffuck da wife...
BANCINI:「wagging his head) Tired... Awful tired...」
narrator:ACUTES (not letting up) Zap him... Give 'im lobotomy... Cut his nuts off... He doesn't have any... Fag... Pervert.
BANCINI:「in a strong angry voice) I'm tired!」
narrator:Everyone hushes.
BIG NURSE:「Somebody see to Mister Bancini.」
narrator:Two or three Acutes get up and try to soothe Bancini, but he isn't to be hushed.

BANCINI:「Tired. Tired. Oh God, I'm tired...」
narrator:Big Nurse nods to Washington, who goes to Pete, and gives his arm a jerk toward the door. Bancini is unmovable.
 Big Nurse signals Nurse Pilbow, who heads for the nurses' station.
 Washington senses danger, lets go of Pete's arm, backs away.
WASHINGTON:「You a good boy, Mistah Bancini...」
narrator:Nurse Pilbow returns, hypodermic needle in hand.
 Pete turns to his fellow inmates.
BANCINI:「You see... it's a lotta baloney... It's all a lotta baloney...」
NURSE PILBOW:「Yes, yes, Mister Bancini, now if you'll just be calm...」
BANCINI:「That's all it is, just a lotta baloney. Ya see, I can't help it, can't...」
NURSE PILBOW:「working her way around Bancini) Yes, I know, I know...」
narrator:She gets him in the ass, with the needle, and springs back.
BANCINI:「don't ya see. I was born dead. Not you. You wasn't born dead. Ahhh, it's been so hard... (starts going over, slowly; sighing and crying) Tired... I'm tired... aw-ful tired...」
narrator:McMurphy looks around at the others.
 Each patient is locked in his own world -- oblivious to Bancini's state.
 EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY
 WIDE SHOT of entire court, surrounded by a high fence topped off with barbed wire, as Washington and Warren escort the Acutes -- including Bromden, Ellis, a lobotomy case and several other Chronics -- through the gate onto the court, which is run down, with cracks in its surface and leaves scattered everywhere.
 Martini, who is carrying the ball, runs ahead, followed by Scanlon, where he starts dribbling the ball in a frantic circle, suddenly passes the ball to nothing.
MARTINI:「as he throws ball) Catch it! Catch it!」
narrator:The ball rolls to the corner.
WASHINGTON:「Martini, there ain't nobody there, ya dumb goon! Go get the ball!」
MARTINI:「No!」
narrator:Martini turns away, his feelings hurt. Washington goes after the ball, when Martini goes running after it.
MARTINI:「I get it! I get it!」
narrator:But Washington gives Martini a body check and beats him to the ball.
 Martini tries to get the ball from Washington, who is quite agile and teases him as he returns to the court where he and Warren start shooting baskets, freezing Martini and Scanlon out.
 The other patients just hang around or walk, as if in a prison yard.
 Cheswick stands in close proximity to McMurphy and Harding, who stand watching the action. McMurphy finally offers a cigarette to Harding, who accepts. They both light up.

Randle McMurphy:「Well, say, buddy, is that the usual pro-cedure for those Group Ther'py shindigs? Bunch of chickens at a peckin' party?」
HARDING:「A pecking party?」
Randle McMurphy:「That's right, buddy. And you want to know who pecks the first peck?」
narrator:HARDING AND CHESWICK Who? Who?
Randle McMurphy:「Ah, come off it! It's that Big Nurse, that's who...」
narrator:The other Acutes have gathered around McMurphy and Harding.
HARDING:「It's as simple as that. You've been on our ward six hours and have already simplified the work of Freud, Jung and Maxwell Jones in one grand analogy: it's a pecking party.」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm not talking about Fred Yoong or Maxwell Jones, buddy, what I'm talkin' about is that crummy meeting and what that nurse did to you!」
HARDING:「Did to me?」
Randle McMurphy:「Did to you and all the rest of you guys.」
BILLY:「Y-y-yes! Yes! Y-y-y-you s-s-saw wh wh-what she c-c-can do to us!」

Randle McMurphy:「What did I see 'cept a grown man gettin' whipped so bad he can't laugh anymore.」
FREDRICKSON:「It's the questions she asks.」
Randle McMurphy:「Tell 'er to go straight to hell!」
HARDING:「Miss Ratched is a competent psychiatric nurse, not some, some kind of monster pecking out our eyes!」
Randle McMurphy:「as calm as blue waters) She ain't peckin' at your eyes, buddy.」
narrator:McMurphy grabs Harding by his balls and Harding goes up on his toes.
Randle McMurphy:「She's peckin' at your balls, buddy, at your ever-lovin' balls.」
narrator:Harding is doubled over.
SEFELT:「That kind of behavior will get you a P.A. rating, my friend.」
Randle McMurphy:「P.A. What the hell is that?」
narrator:SEFELT Potential assaultive.
FREDRICKSON:「Which gets you shipped up to Disturbed for a nice little zap job.」
Randle McMurphy:「Huh?」

HARDING:「Electro-Shock Therapy, my friend. Five cents' worth of electricity and you are out of everybody's hair.」
Randle McMurphy:「Tell 'er to go to hell anyway!」
HARDING:「And if you persist in your ways, they can always ship you over to Medical Surgery.」
Randle McMurphy:「What for?」
HARDING:「Lobotomy!」
Randle McMurphy:「Lobotomy?」
HARDING:「(pointing to lobotomy case) That!」
narrator:McMurphy looks.
 SHOT OF A LOBOTOMY CASE
 A vegetable, complete with two half-dollar scars in his forehead.
 McMURPHY
 As he absorbs this bit of information the basketball rolls to his feet and he picks it up.
Randle McMurphy:「to Harding) Is that your sense of humor or are you tryin' to say somethin'?」
HARDING:「Now, what would I be trying to say?」
narrator:Martini and Scanlon rush over and try to get the ball.
SCANLON:「Gimme the ball!」
MARTINI:「No. Me! Me!」
WASHINGTON:「O.S.) Pass the ball, McMurphy.」

narrator:McMurphy crosses to the court, bouncing the ball as he goes. When he reaches the court he holds the ball out to Washington, who reaches for it, but McMurphy snaps it back over his shoulder to Martini.
Randle McMurphy:「turning to Martini) Pass it to me, Martini.」
narrator:Martini holds back.
Randle McMurphy:「C'mon, I'll give it back!」
narrator:Martini passes to McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「Atta boy, Martini.」
narrator:He passes it back to Martini, who laughs and passes it back to McMurphy, who passes it to Scanlon, who passes to McMurphy, who passes to Billy, etc. Bromden just stands watching.
Randle McMurphy:「encouraging them) Back and forth, that's it. Shoot, man, we'll be takin' on the New York Knicks before we're through...」
narrator:McMurphy looks to see Big Nurse looking out a window at them. He catches her eye. She turns away.
Randle McMurphy:「V.O) Hey-ya, hey-ya, come on, come on, I'm waitin' on you suckers, you hit or you sit...」

narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 The MUSIC is PLAYING. The TV is on the six o'clock news as McMurphy, cards in hand, is dealing blackjack to Cheswick, Harding, Sefelt, Billy and Martini. Fredrickson and Scanlon are looking on as Bromden eases up to the game. Cheswick is at the nurses' station talking to Big Nurse.
SEFELT:「Hit me!」
Randle McMurphy:「Hit, you say? Well well well and with a king up, the boy wants a hit. Whadaya know. So comin' at you and too bad, a little lady for the lad and he's over the wall and down the road, up the hill and dropped his load.」
SEFELT:「Boogered!」
narrator:McMurphy rakes in Sefelt's cigarettes, adding them to a pile of loose cigarettes, packs of cigarettes, several cartons of cigarettes.
 As Cheswick sits down, depressed:
Randle McMurphy:「Kay, place your bets.」
MARTINI:「holding up a cigarette) What's this?」
Randle McMurphy:「That's a dime, Martini.」
narrator:Martini breaks a cigarette in half.
MARTINI:「Bet a nickel!」

Randle McMurphy:「to Cheswick) Whadaya bet, Cheswick?」
CHESWICK:「She won't give me any more cigarettes!」
Randle McMurphy:「That okay. I'll take your marker. How many ya want?」
CHESWICK:「Lend me twenty.」
narrator:McMurphy counts out twenty cigarettes, marks it down on a piece of paper, and passes the cigarettes to Cheswick, who bets all twenty.
 The Sports have come on TV and McMurphy's attention is divided.
Randle McMurphy:「checking the board) 'Kay, all bets are down, let's wheel 'em an' deal 'em.」
narrator:He deals the cards out, the first one face down, then the next one face up.
Randle McMurphy:「Big king... little deuce... another king... a lovely lady... big ten... and a trey... hey, hey, whadaya say? Ya hit or sit, Martini?」
MARTINI:「Hit me.」
Randle McMurphy:「hits with a picture) That's twenty up, Martini. (turning to TV, he shouts across room) Hey, Taber, who's pitching the opening game?」
narrator:Taber calls back something but it's lost in the other sounds.

MARTINI:「Hit me!」
Randle McMurphy:「Wait a minute, Martini, I can't hear a thing. (turning back to Taber) What?」
TABER:「shouting back) Koufax against Ford!」
MISS PILBOW:「V.O.) (over loudspeaker) Medication time! Medication time! Medication!」
MARTINI:「simultaneously with Pilbow) Hit me!」
narrator:McMurphy slams his cards down, stands up, crosses the day room, heading for the nurses' station. He passes Washington, who stands there waiting to dispense orange juice.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT
 as McMurphy enters. Nurse Pilbow is the only one there.
Randle McMurphy:「Pardon me miss, but would you mind turning...」
NURSE PILBOW:「scared out of her wits) Stay back! Patients aren't allowed to enter the... Oh, stay back!」
Randle McMurphy:「All I'm askin' is...」
narrator:Nurse Pilbow grabs at her cross, screams and shuts her eyes, holding the cross in front of her.
NURSE PILBOW:「Oh, stay back, I'm a Catholic!」
narrator:Big Nurse enters from the nurses' lounge.

BIG NURSE:「Mister McMurphy. Patients aren't allowed in here.」
Randle McMurphy:「Sorry, ma'am.」
narrator:McMurphy steps out of the station, closing the door behind him.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 as McMurphy goes around to the front of the nurses' station and queues up behind the other Acutes who are getting their medication. McMurphy reaches the window, takes the cup, but doesn't take his pills.
Randle McMurphy:「to Big Nurse) Pardon me, ma'am, can I ask you somethin'?」
BIG NURSE:「politely) Yes, Mister McMurphy?」
Randle McMurphy:「How 'bout turning off that music for a while so a man can hear himself think?」
BIG NURSE:「pleasantly) That music is for everyone, Mister McMurphy.」
narrator:McMurphy leans in, placing his hand on the window.
Randle McMurphy:「confidentially) Well, say, how 'bout easin' it down a bit so a man don't have to shout!」

BIG NURSE:「(aware of his physical proximity) Mister McMurphy, there are old men here who couldn't hear the music at all if it were lower. That music is all they have, and I wish you wouldn't lean against the glass there, your hands are staining the window.」
narrator:McMurphy jerks his hand away.
Randle McMurphy:「Sorry, ma'am... Sorry 'bout that...」
narrator:McMurphy breathes on the glass and wipes it clean with his sleeve.
Randle McMurphy:「Sorry to have bothered you.」
narrator:BIG NURSE Not at all, Mister McMurphy...
 McMurphy turns to walk away.
NURSE PILBOW:「Your medicine, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「turning back, he examines the contents of the cup) What's the horse pill for, honey?」
NURSE PILBOW:「It's just medication, Mister McMurphy, good for you. Now down it goes...」
Randle McMurphy:「Look, miss, I don't like swallowing something without knowing what it is!」
narrator:NURSE PILBOW (stepping back a little) Don't get upset, Mister McMurphy...

Randle McMurphy:「I'm not upset. All I wanna know, for the lovva Jesus...」
BIG NURSE:「That's all right, Miss Pilbow, if Mister McMurphy does not wish to take his medication orally, he may...」
Randle McMurphy:「No, that's okay, ma'am. Down it goes.」
narrator:McMurphy makes a big show of popping the pill in his mouth, holding his paper cup upside down, for all to see, then moving on to Washington, who fills it with orange juice.
 McMurphy gulps it down, not without some difficulty, then he smiles at all the concerned faces and crosses the room to the card table, where he sits to see the Acutes looking at him.
HARDING:「Why didn't you tell her to go to hell, lover boy?」
TABER:「Yeah, whattsa matter, Mack, she too much for ya?」
narrator:McMurphy holds the pill up and flicks it into Harding's forehead.
Randle McMurphy:「You boys seem to think you've got a champ in there, huh?」
HARDING:「I don't see you scoring any points, buddy. And you're just the man for the job, right?」

Randle McMurphy:「Hell, I couldn't get it up over old hatchet-face if ya paid me!」
HARDING:「She's not all that homely, Mister McMurphy. In fact, she must have been a rather beautiful young lady.」
narrator:The men look at Big Nurse.
 The patients look at the nurses' station.
 PATIENTS' POV
 Big Nurse is busy at her work.
 INT. NURSES STATION - BIG NURSE'S POV - NIGHT
 The patients looking at her. They turn back to their card game.
 REVERSE ANGLE
 CAMERA HOLDS on Big Nurse as McMurphy's VOICE is HEARD over INTERCOM.
Randle McMurphy:「V.O.) (through intercom) Yeah, an' I'm tellin' ya, she's just an icy-hearted over-the-hump gal who never got enough of the old wham-bam to straighten 'er out... Okay, who wants a card?」
MARTINI:「V.O.) (through intercom) Me. Hit me!」

narrator:Big Nurse looks up and studies the men gathered round the table.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT
 The patients are asleep except for Bromden, who stands by the window looking out.
 McMurphy is asleep in the bed next to his. A beat when TURKLE, a fifty-year-old Negro night attendant, slightly drunk, lays a gentle hand on Bromden's shoulder.
TURKLE:「Le's get back to bed, Mistah Bromden...」
narrator:Bromden allows himself to be led back to bed. Turkle fumbles around for the security belt, finds it, straps Bromden loosely in bed, then goes off clucking to himself.
 Bromden reaches under his bed and plucks a stale piece of gum from under the bed frame. He starts chewing it when he sees McMurphy looking at him.
 Bromden goes right on chewing and looking McMurphy right in the eye.
Randle McMurphy:「whispering) Chief? I wanna ask ya somethin'. (sings) Oh, does the spearmint lose its flavor on the bedpost overnight? When you chew it in the morning, will it be too hard to bite? This question's got me goin', won't somebody set me right; does the spearmint lose its flavor on the bedpost overnight?」

narrator:McMurphy holds the last note, reaches over and rustles through his nightstand.
Randle McMurphy:「Here ya go, Chief...」
narrator:A small object lands on Bromden's bed. It is a fresh package of gum. Bromden picks it up. Examines it. Unwraps it. Deposits his old piece of gum under the bed frame, then inserts the fresh gum in his mouth and starts chewing.
 SERIES OF SHOTS
 SHOWING the MEN'S DORM, the empty DAY ROOM, TURKLE ASLEEP in the NURSES' STATION, EMPTY HALLWAYS, the NIGHT SUPERINTENDENT AT HER DESK, MORE HALLWAYS... ENDING ON:
 INT. MEN'S DORM - SUNRISE
 ABERRATED SHOT of INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS SEEN THROUGH STEEL MESH SCREEN -- as the sun rises above the treetops.
 REVERSE SHOT - BROMDEN
 looking out of the window. His face washed by the sunlight. His eyes have a vague look, almost vacuous, as...
BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (through loudspeaker) Good morning, boys. Rise and shine. Rise and shine.」
narrator:INT. MEN'S DORM - DAY
 as Washington, Warren and Miller roust the patients out of bed.

BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (through loudspeaker) Time to got up! Come on now, it's a beautiful day! Let's not straggle! Everybody up, up, up!」
narrator:McMurphy is in bed, not ready for the world, when Washington crosses to Bromden, who is looking out the window, and leads him off.
WASHINGTON:「Le's go, Chief. Le's go get ourselves all nice and clean... (to McMurphy) You too, Mistah Mack-Murphy!」
narrator:Washington goes off with Bromden.
 CAMERA HOLDS on McMurphy as he slowly pulls it together and sits on the edge of the bed. He's naked as he opens the drawer to his nightstand and fishes around for a cigarette.
Randle McMurphy:「looking in the drawer) What the... (looking around) Who the fuck stole my cigarettes!」
narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 as the Acutes straggle past Big Nurse.
BIG NURSE:「Good morning, Mister Sefelt, are your teeth any better?... Good morning, Mister Fredrickson... Good morning, Mister Harding; my, my, you've been biting your fingernails again...」
narrator:She sees McMurphy approaching, wearing a towel around his waist and a scowl on his face.

BIG NURSE:「Mister McMurphy, patients are not permitted to run around in towels.」
Randle McMurphy:「I wanna report a robbery!」
BIG NURSE:「On this ward?」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, some creep stole my cigarettes!」
narrator:BIG NURSE Oh, I had them removed.
Randle McMurphy:「What for?」
narrator:BIG NURSE Patients are rationed to one pack of cigarettes a day.
 Bromden comes drifting by, going in the opposite direction. Big Nurse takes his hand.
BIG NURSE:「(calling out) Mister Washington!」
narrator:Washington comes running.
WASHINGTON:「Yes, Miss Ratched?」
BIG NURSE:「Please see to Mister Bromden.」
WASHINGTON:「taking Bromden by the hand) Yes, Miss Ratched...」
narrator:Washington leads Bromden off. Big Nurse turns to Cheswick and several other Acutes, who have crowded around.
BIG NURSE:「Now you boys hurry along and wash up for breakfast... (to McMurphy) You too, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Well, say. How 'bout springing a pack of cigarettes loose?」

BIG NURSE:「After breakfast, Mister McMurphy, after breakfast.」
Randle McMurphy:「You sure run a tight-assed ship 'round here, don't ya!」
BIG NURSE:「Yes. Now run along like a good boy and see that you wash up properly.」
narrator:WIDER ANGLE
 A beat, as the Acutes wait for McMurphy's next move, then:
Randle McMurphy:「Kay, let's go brush our teeth, fellas...」
narrator:McMurphy turns and crosses toward the washroom, singing at the top of his lungs.
Randle McMurphy:「Oh, Lulu had a baby, His name was Sunny Jim, She put 'im in a piss pot, To teach 'im how to swim. Oh, he swam to the bottom, He swam to the top, Lulu got excited, An' pulled 'im by his... Cock-tail ginger-ale, Five cents a glass, An' if ya don't like it Ya can shove it up your... Ask me no more questions, I'll tell ya no more lies.」

narrator:BIG NURSE
 watching McMurphy who removes his towel as he enters the washroom.
 INT. WASHROOM - DAY
 as McMurphy enters to see Warren take a firm grip on Bromaen's head and Washington goes to work on Bromden's face. CAMERA PUSHES INTO EXTREME CLOSEUP of Bromden's fearfully distorted face as the BUZZING SOUND of the ELECTRIC RAZOR INTENSIFIES until it is INSUPPORTABLE.
 INT. MESS HALL - DAY
 We SEE the attendants spooning food into the sucking pink mouths of the vegetables, a shade too fast for swallowing.
Randle McMurphy:「O.S.) What's wrong with you guys?」
narrator:We SEE McMurphy seated with the Acutes, shoveling food down his guillet. The others are barely touching their food.
Randle McMurphy:「Why, if I'd have known how soft this place was gonna be, I'd have arranged for my transfer sooner... (holding up his orange juice) Look at this here, real orange juice! (slugging it down) Hooee, that's good. Why, you couldn't pay me to leave this place! (slaps his belly) All this place lacks is a couple of sweet gals to liven things up...」

narrator:He gets up and carries his tray to the proper place, where he notices Miller loading several other trays onto a dumbwaiter. Miller pushes a button and the dumbwaiter goes down. McMurphy crosses to the door to find it blocked by Washington.
Randle McMurphy:「Stand aside, Sam, Nature's callin'.」
WASHINGTON:「Nobody leaves here till seven thirty.」
narrator:McMurphy turns Washington over in his mind, then he looks up at the clock above the door.
 The time is 7:28. The second hand sweeping its way toward 7:29.
Randle McMurphy:「Don't know if I can hold it that long, Sam.」
WASHINGTON:「Tha's your problem.」
Randle McMurphy:「confidentially) Who do you like in the opening game, Sam?」
WASHINGTON:「Huh?」
Randle McMurphy:「turning away) Asshole.」
narrator:McMurphy turns and walks away.
 Washington watches him go.
CHESWICK:「V.O.) I wanna know about my cigarettes!」
narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 A group meeting is in progress. Doctor Spivey is there.
 Cheswick is on his feet.
BIG NURSE:「Sit down, Mister Cheswick.」

narrator:CHESWTCK (not sitting) No, I ain't no kid to have my cigarettes keep from me like cookies! Ain't that right, Mack! (McMurphy doesn't respond) Mack???
BIG NURSE:「Sit down, Mister Cheswick!」
narrator:Cheswick sits -- stunned. A beat; then:
BIG NURSE:「(to Cheswick) You should have thought about that before you gambled all your cigarettes away. Is that clear?」
narrator:Cheswick sulks in his seat.
BIG NURSE:「Mister Cheswick, is that clear!」
CHESWICK:「Yeah...」
BIG NURSE:「Good... (opens her book) Now, as I recall, we were making quite a bit of headway, last time, with Mister Harding's problem. So, does anyone care to begin?」
narrator:McMurphy's hand goes up. No one else's does.
BIG NURSE:「Yes, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Right... I've been givin' some serious consideration to what you told me about the democratic something of this therapeutic community of ours, an' I got a few things I wanna get off my chest, before we get back to Harding's problem.」

BIG NURSE:「Certainly, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Right!」
narrator:McMurphy takes a folded sheet of paper out of his pocket, unfolds it, studies it and begins.
Randle McMurphy:「Kay... Item one... I've been thinkin' 'bout the age problem we got on this ward. You know, the young an' old livin' together, an' I was thinkin' what a great thing it would be if the music was turned up louder. Louder so the old fellas could hear better...」
narrator:Doctor Spivey nods with approval.
 Big Nurse doesn't.
 The Acutes are bewildered.
Randle McMurphy:「But then I got to thinkin', the music is so loud already, it makes it difficult for the young fellas to hold a decent conversation...」
narrator:Nods and murmurs of approval from the Acutes.
 Big Nurse can only wait for McMurphy's next move.
Randle McMurphy:「Well, I was turnin' this dilemma over in my head, when I happened to hit on that old tub room out there, an' I said to myself, McMurphy, I said, that place would make a great second day room. A sort of game room for the young fellas. Whadaya think, Doc?」

SPIVEY:「It is worth considering... Miss Ratched?」
BIG NURSE:「The point is well taken, Doctor, but do we have the necessary personnel to cover a second day room?」
SPIVEY:「Well, since it will be largely the Chronics who remain here, one aide and one nurse should easily be able to handle any situation that might occur. (he turns to the patients) What do you think, men, is it workable?」
CHESWICK:「Right, Doc. It's workable.」
narrator:Several other Acutes voice in the affirmative.
SPIVEY:「Fine!」
BIG NURSE:「Good. Good. Yes, yes, I think we should give it a trial period. So! May we get back to Mister Harding's problem... (she sees McMurphy's hand up) Yes, Mister McMurphy?」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm not finished yet.」
narrator:BIG NURSE Go on...
Randle McMurphy:「looking at his list) 'Kay, item two. Tomorrow, and listen carefully to me, you ding-a lings. Tomorrow is the opening game of the World Series an' what I want is to take a vote on switchin' the group meetin' to later on in the day, so we can watch the ballgame.」

BIG NURSE:「Just a minute, Mister McMurphy!」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah?」
narrator:BIG NURSE Please understand, the schedule has been set up for a delicately balanced reason that would be thrown into turmoil by a switch of routines.
Randle McMurphy:「The hell with the schedule, you can get back to the schedule next week when the series is over. What I want is a vote on it right now!」
CHESWICK:「I second the motion!」
Randle McMurphy:「Atta boy, Cheswick!」
BIG NURSE:「Very well! All those in favor, please raise your hands.」
narrator:Big Nurse casts a watchful eye over the patients.
Randle McMurphy:「raising his hand) Okay, raise your hands.」
narrator:Only Cheswick's goes up.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on', what is this crap? Who wants to watch the World Series?」
narrator:Martini and Scanlon's hands go up.
 Several Acutes look at them.
 Scanlon and Martini's hands go down.
 McMurphy can't believe his eyes.
BIG NURSE:「(politely) I count only two, including you, Mister McMurphy. Certainly not enough to change ward policy.」

narrator:McMurphy's hand goes down.
BIG NURSE:「Yes. Now was there anything else you wanted to discuss, Mister McMurphy?」
Randle McMurphy:「No way.」
CHESWICK:「No way.」
narrator:McMurphy starts tearing his sheet of paper up into a thousand pieces.
BIG NURSE:「checking her watch) Then I suggest we turn our attention back to Mister Harding's problem. Would anybody care to begin?」
narrator:She looks around.
 McMurphy is slouched in his chair.
 Harding puts his hands up. No one else does.
BIG NURSE:「Yes, Mister Harding?」

HARDING:「Yes, thank you, Miss Ratched. Since our last meeting I have been reflecting, quite seriously, on the nature of my problem. Naturally, I'm referring to the capacity to obtain the necessary results in order to obtain... No, no. To personify the very existence of that relationship regardless of the function... (he stops, chews his lip, then continues) Regardless of the function, we will confront the question of... Yes. Yes. The question of... Existence... Relationship... Function... Confront... Yes, confronting us in the moment of deepest crisis... Yes, the crisis of our souls. Of our souls, which I am trying to fully understand the problem... the problem. Not to shut ourselves off, but somehow... Somehow to understand fully our capacity... to obtain... to personify... the question... existence depends... depends on the question... to reflect... to reflect...」
narrator:Harding, breaks off, sweating; he begins to knead his forehead and chew his nails.
HARDING:「To reflect...」
narrator:ANGLE
 Silence as the CAMERA REFLECTS: the room, the patients, the staff, the hallways, the hospital, the grounds, the trees, the sky, ending on.
MARTINI:「V.O.) Hold it a minute. What's a man need to buy thum hotels?」
narrator:INT. TUB ROOM - NIGHT
 Bromden is pressed against the wall, watching McMurphy, Martini, Scanlon and Cheswick play a game of monopoly. The others are playing cards or just hanging around, a little chagrined. Billy is most disturbed by this separation.
Randle McMurphy:「You need four houses on every lot of the same color, Martini. Now let's go, for Christsakes.」

MARTINI:「Hold it a minute.」
narrator:There's a flurry of money from Martini, red, green and yellow bills blowing in every direction.
CHESWICK:「Let's go, for Christsakes...」
Randle McMurphy:「It's your dirty roll, Cheswick.」
narrator:Cheswick rolls the dice.
Randle McMurphy:「Snake eyes! Hoooeee, that puts you on my Marvin Gardens, which means you owe me three hundred and fifty dollars.」
narrator:Cheswick starts counting out the money.
MARTINI:「What's thum other things? Hold it a minute. What's thum other things all over the board?」
CHESWICK:「to Martini) How can a man concentrate with you sitting there hallucinating a mile a minute...」
Randle McMurphy:「You just come on with that three fifty and Martini will take care of himself... Your dice, Scanlon.」
SCANLON:「Gimme those dice. I'll blow this board to pieces. Here we go... (throws the dice) Lebenty leben, count me over eleven, Martini...」
narrator:Martini picks up a house...
SCANLON:「Not that one, you crazy bastard, that's my house...」

narrator:Scanlon grabs Martini's hand and tries to get his piece back. Martini won't let go.
Randle McMurphy:「Break it up, God dammit! Ain't I got enough troubles without you guys messin' around... can't depend on nobody.」
BILLY:「from the next table) Some of us ha-ha-have b-b-been here a long t-t-time, Randle, and will b b-be here long after this Wo-Wo World Series of yours is oh-oh-oh, what's the use anyway...」
narrator:McMurphy slams his fist down on the table, sending the monopoly pieces flying. Martini is crestfallen.
Randle McMurphy:「What's the use! Hooee! It'd do you birds some good just to get a little exercise lifting your arms to vote!」
HARDING:「A baseball game isn't worth the risk, my friend.」
Randle McMurphy:「It is to me! An' if I hafta bust way outta this place to see it, I will!」
CHESWICK:「Right!」
FREDRICKSON:「Oh, yeah?」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah!」
SEFELT:「Big man!」

Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, how much you wanna bet?」
narrator:SEFELT On what?
Randle McMurphy:「That me an' my buddy, Cheswick, we'll be downtown tomorrow watchin' the ballgame while you suckers are sittin' around this goddamn nursery!」
HARDING:「And how do you propose to accomplish that little feat, my friend?」
Randle McMurphy:「That's between me an' myself. So why don't you boys just shove off. I got some planning to do.」
narrator:McMurphy sits and resumes his game of solitaire. Martini and Scanlon are putting the monopoly game back together again.
 Bromden spots (or he thinks he spots) one of the attendants listening at the door. He wants to warn the others, but doesn't know how.
SEFELT:「Maybe he'll just show Miss Ratched his big thing an' she'll open the door for him.」
narrator:Sefelt and Frederickson smile at each other.
 Bromden slides along the wall toward the door.
Randle McMurphy:「Maybe I'll just use that thick skull of yours as a batterin' ram, Sefelt.」
SEFELT:「Why, my head would just squash like an eggplant, McMurphy.」

narrator:Fredrickson and Sefelt snicker in their hands.
Randle McMurphy:「You think it's funny, huh?」
TABER:「Yeah, you don't know how to get outta this place!」
narrator:Bromden reaches the door and looks out. No one is there.
Randle McMurphy:「Put your money where your mouth is, Taber.」
TABER:「Yeah, yeah, you're a fucking phony, McMurphy!」
narrator:Bromden turns back to the room to see McMurphy slam his fist down on the table; the monopoly game goes flying.
Randle McMurphy:「rising and turning on the others, who back off) You want me to show ya! You want me to show ya how!」
TABER:「Yeah, yeah, show me. Show me how!」
Randle McMurphy:「All right!」
narrator:He looks wildly around the room, spots the machine, crosses to it and smacks it with his hand.
Randle McMurphy:「With this thing! I'm gonna put this thing right through the window, that's how!」
HARDING:「You mean you're going to try to pick that thing up and shove it through the window?」

Randle McMurphy:「You're fuckin' A-right, I am!」
HARDING:「With your own two hands?」
Randle McMurphy:「You heard me the first time!」
TABER:「I'll bet a buck you don't do it!」
Randle McMurphy:「You're on!」
BILLY:「M-M-Mack, y-y-y-you c-c-can't l-l lift that thing!」
Randle McMurphy:「Stand aside, son. Any more takers?」
SEFELT:「I'll bet a dollar.」
FREDRICKSON:「Me, too...」
Randle McMurphy:「Right!」
MARTINI:「A nickel.」
SCANLON:「A dime.」
Randle McMurphy:「Okay. Who else?」
HARDING:「Twenty-five dollars.」
Randle McMurphy:「knows he's taking a bad bet) Okay, Harding, you're on.」
narrator:HARDING Okay, sucker.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah... Okay, stand aside, you guys! You're usin' up my oxygen!」

narrator:The Acutes stand aside and McMurphy steps up to the machine.
 He shifts his feet to get a good stance, wipes his hands on his thighs, leans down and gets hold of the levers on each side, and strains.
 Bromden watches, in awe of McMurphy.
 McMurphy turns loose, straightens up and shifts his feet for a better position.
HARDING:「Giving up?」
Randle McMurphy:「Just warmin' up.」
narrator:He grabs the levers again. His whole body shakes with the strain. For just a second we HEAR the cement GRIND. Then his breath explodes and he falls back limp against the wall. There's blood on his hands. No sound but his rasping breath. He opens his eyes and looks around. Then pulls out a pocketful of IOU's and tries to sort them out, but his hands are frozen into red claws. He throws the whole bundle on the floor and walks out. At the door, he turns back.
Randle McMurphy:「But I tried. Goddammit, I sure as hell did that much. Didn't I?」

narrator:McMurphy exits.
 REACTION SHOT OF ACUTES
 SHOT OF BROMDEN
 looking at the machine. A long beat.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT
 The patients are getting ready for bed when Billy approaches McMurpby, who is in bed.
BILLY:「M-M-Mack...」
narrator:McMurphy turns away from Billy, who crosses to the other side of the bed.
BILLY:「M-M-Mack, I-I-I'm sorry!」
HARDING:「Leave him alone, he's pouting.」
BILLY:「Y-Y-Y-You leave him alone!」
Randle McMurphy:「That's okay, kid...」
narrator:BILLY Th-th-then y-y-you're n-n-not m-m mad?
Randle McMurphy:「No, kid, it was my own stupidity, that's what pissed me off.」
narrator:BILLY O-o-o-oh...
Randle McMurphy:「What we're gonna have to do is pull this ballclub together for our next play. 'Kay!」
BILLY:「K-k-kay, Mack!」

narrator:INT. HALLWAY - DAY
 Washington, Warren and Miller are at the end of the hallway, listening to a small RADIO. We can HEAR the SPORTS ANNOUNCER giving the line-up for the opening game of the World Series.
 WASHINGTON'S POV Way down the hall, the Group Meeting is SEEN in progress.
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 A Group Meeting is in progress and Big Nurse is honed in on Billy.
BIG NURSE:「Try, Billy, try...」
narrator:Billy tries, but can't talk.
 The other Acutes are bored, restive, waiting.
 McMurphy has ants in his pants as Big Nurse speaks to Billy.
BIG NURSE:「Was it your idea to visit her on Sunday?」
BILLY:「Y-y-y-yes...」
BIG NURSE:「Tell us about it...」
BILLY:「I-I-I-I c-c-c-came over S-S-S Sunday m-m-m-morning after ch-ch-ch church and br-br-brought her s-s some flowers, and I s-s-said, I said, 'C-C-C-Celia, will you muh muh-muh-muh-muh...' till the girl broke out l-l-laughing.」
narrator:Billy laughs at himself.
BIG NURSE:「What was it about her that disturbed you so, Billy?」
BILLY:「rubbing scars on his wrist) I was in luh-love with her.」
BIG NURSE:「Billy, were you afraid of her, or of her love?」
narrator:No response from Billy.
BIG NURSE:「That was the first time you attempted to commit suicide, wasn't it? (no response) You must try to talk about it, Billy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Jesus Christ, the man doesn't want to talk, so get off his back an' let's get on to some new business.」

narrator:BIG NURSE Mister McMurphy, the purpose of this meeting is therapy. Group therapy.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, yeah, the hell with that crap! The World Series is goin' on right' now an' that's therapy also!」
narrator:BIG NURSE Let me pose a question to the group: do any of you feel that Mister McMurphy is perhaps imposing his personal desires on you too much?
Randle McMurphy:「What the hell does that have to do with it? This is an important event and I want a vote on it!」
CHESWICK:「Yeah, let's vote on it!」
BIG NURSE:「Will one more vote satisfy you?」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, it'll satisfy me.」
narrator:BIG NURSE Very well. What is it you're proposing, Mister McMurphy?
Randle McMurphy:「I'm proposing a re-vote on watchin' the ballgame!」
narrator:BIG NURSE (to the patients) A vote is before the group.
Randle McMurphy:「Okay, I wanna see the hands. I wanna see which of you birds has any guts.」

narrator:BIG NURSE Everyone in favor of changing the schedule raise his hand.
 The first hand to come up is Cheswick's. Then McMurphy's. Then Martini, Scanlon, Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy and Taber.
 Harding doesn't vote.
 Big Nurse starts counting the hands.
 McMurphy, his face beaming, counts the hands.
Randle McMurphy:「That's it! We made it!」
BIG NURSE:「I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, I count only eight.」
Randle McMurphy:「So do I!」
narrator:BIG NURSE But there are eighteen patients on the ward, Mister McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「the light dawning) You mean to tell me you're gonna count those old birds over there?」
narrator:BIG NURSE I'm sorry, Mister McMurphy, but you must have a majority to change ward policy.
Randle McMurphy:「Well, I'll be a son-of-a-bitch...」
BILLY:「B-But, M-M-Miss R-Ratched, y-you n never c-c-counted th-their votes before!」
narrator:A beat.
BIG NURSE:「losing ground) You mean you don't want their votes to count, Billy!」

BILLY:「I-I-I...」
Randle McMurphy:「Well, screw that noise!」
narrator:McMurphy rises and, taking his chair, he crosses toward the television set.
BIG NURSE:「Sit down, Mister McMurphy!」
narrator:McMurphy turns the TV on, flips the channel, then sits and waits for a picture.
BIG NURSE:「I want you to turn the television off and return to your place!」
narrator:A picture swirls onto the TV screen. The ballgame is in progress (documentary footage to be used).
 Martini rushes over and joins McMurphy. Scanlon follows hot on his heels as --
Randle McMurphy:「Hoo-wee! Man, all I need me now is a can of beer and a red-hot.」
narrator:Cheswick gets up and starts across when --
BIG NURSE:「Sit down, Mister Cheswick.」
narrator:Cheswick stops and stands there, helpless to move.
CHESWICK:「Mack...」

narrator:McMurphy is deep into the game.
 INSERT - TV SCREEN
 On the screen a great play is taking place, and at the breathtaking moment the TV picture swirls into a little eye of light -- then nothing.
 BACK TO SCENE
 The Acutes are left with their mouths hanging open.
BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (over loudspeaker) I want you men to return to your proper places. The group meeting is not over!」
narrator:McMurphy continues looking at the blank TV screen as the Acutes look from McMurphy to Big Nurse, not knowing what to do next when --
Randle McMurphy:「jumping up and shouting at the blank TV screen) A hit! It's a hit! He's rounding first, heading for second. Here comes the throw. He's sliding... and... he's safe! He's safe! (McMurphy whistles and claps his hands) Hoo-wee! Whatta game! Whatta game! Come on, Koufax! Strike 'em out!」
narrator:The Acutes are stunned at McMurphy's outburst.
BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (over loudspeaker) Mister McMurphy, you are deliberately violating the rules!...」
Randle McMurphy:「He's into his wind-up. Here comes the pitch. Strike on the inside corner!」

narrator:Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy and Taber get up and cross toward the TV. Harding is the only one who doesn't join them.
BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (over loudspeaker) You men remain seated!」
Randle McMurphy:「focusing in on TV screen) He's into his wind-up. Here's the next pitch... and it's a hit! It's a hit!」
MARTINI:「jumping up and down) I saw thum! I saw thum!」
SCANLON:「Me, too! Me, too!」
SEFELT:「Yes, I see it! I see it!」
Randle McMurphy:「on his feet, shouting) Ya-hoo, let's'play ball!」
narrator:The other Acutes pick up on McMurphy and start shouting at the blank TV screen.
 ACUTES Ya-hoo! It's a hit! A triple! It's a home run! A double! He's out! Whadaya blind? He's safe by a mile! (AD LIB)
BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (over loudspeaker) You boys, stop this and go to your assignments! Mister McMurphy, I want you to set an example...」

Randle McMurphy:「Kay, it's two outs, bases loaded as Koufax steps up to the mound... Checks the runners... goes into his wind-up... Here comes the three-two pitch... And it's a fly ball into deep center. Mantle is going back. He's going back! Back! His back is up against the wall... and... he catches it! He catches it!」
narrator:The Acutes are shouting, cheering, stomping and dancing in each other's arms.
 BIG NURSE'S VOICE (over loudspeaker) You men stop this! Mister Washington! Miller! Warren!
 Big Nurse's last words overload the intercom and the system peaks out. Big Nurse's mouth continues to work in frantic circles as Washington, Miller and Warren rush to quell the uproar.
 INT. SPIVEY'S OFFICE - DAY
 Doctor Spivey is seated behind his desk, looking over McMurphy's papers.
 McMurphy sits facing him.
SPIVEY:「How are you feeling?」
Randle McMurphy:「Just fine, Doc... In fact, I think I might've put on a couple of pounds since I got here.」
SPIVEY:「Good, good, and how are you getting along on the ward?」

Randle McMurphy:「Come on, Doc, you know as well as I do what's been comin' down in that loony bin.」
narrator:SPIVEY Yes, well, Miss Ratched feels that you're a disturbing influence on the other patients.
Randle McMurphy:「Shoot, Doc, the only one I'm disturbing is that old nurse and her fixed ways. That's all.」
narrator:SPIVEY Yes, that may be so, but in making a careful study of your past record, along with your behavior since you arrived here, my feeling is that you are not mentally ill and it is going to be my recommendation that you be returned to Pendleton where they are better equipped to handle your case.
 This is the kiss of death to McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on, Doc, you must be kiddin'.」
SPIVEY:「I'm afraid not.」
Randle McMurphy:「Jesus, that old nurse sure wants my ass in a sling, don't she!」
narrator:SPIVEY No, Mister McMurphy, it's just that we cannot offer you the guidance and assistance that you would receive at Pendleton.
Randle McMurphy:「Guidance and assistance! That's insane! Doc, ya gotta help me.」

narrator:SPIVEY I'm sorry, but I can't keep you here.
Randle McMurphy:「When?」
SPIVEY:「We'll let you know.」
narrator:REACTION SHOT of McMurphy.
 EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY
 Washington and Warren are sitting on the grass watching Martini, Scanlon, Harding and Billy, who are positioned on the court waiting on McMurphy who is under the board with Bromden.
 Cheswick and the other patients hang around off court as:
Randle McMurphy:「with great physical and vocal emphasis throughout entire scene) Okay, Chief. This is your spot! I don't want you to move from this spot! Never!... 'Kay, now, take the ball! Raise your hands, like this...」
narrator:McMurphy raises his hands above his head. Bromden follows suit.
Randle McMurphy:「That's good! That's a good boy, Chief! Now jump and put it in!」
narrator:McMurphy jumps. Bromden doesn't. McMurphy does this a couple of times. Each time Bromden remains motionless.
HARDING:「He can't hear you!」
Randle McMurphy:「I know, goddammit! You don't have ta tell me that!」

narrator:HARDING So why are you talking to him?
Randle McMurphy:「I'm not talkin' to him! I'm talkin' to myself! It helps me think!」
narrator:HARDING It doesn't help him.
Randle McMurphy:「Well, it doesn't hurt him either! (turning to Bromden) Does it, Chief! (no response) See, it doesn't hurt him. (to Bromden) Jump! An' put it in!」
narrator:McMurphy jumps. Bromden doesn't move.
HARDING:「Well, I think you're just confusing him...」
narrator:Bromden jumps.
Randle McMurphy:「Ha! Did ya see that! (calling to Cheswick on the sidelines) Hey, Cheswick!」
CHESWICK:「Yeah, Mack?」
Randle McMurphy:「Come here!」
narrator:Cheswick runs over.
CHESWICK:「Yeah, Mack?」
Randle McMurphy:「Let me get on your shoulders.」
narrator:CHESWICK Sure, Mack...
 McMurphy climbs on his shoulders.

Randle McMurphy:「Kay, wheel me around to the basket... 'Kay, easy, easy. Hold it! 'Kay, now. (he sees Bromden has walked away) Hey, Chief, come back!」
narrator:Bromden doesn't hear.
Randle McMurphy:「Cheswick, go get 'im!」
narrator:Cheswick goes after Bromden, catches him, and McMurphy latches onto him.
Randle McMurphy:「Now, wheel me to the basket.」

narrator:Cheswick, straining under the weight of McMurphy, turns toward the basket.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT
 as Bromden, chewing his gum, watches McMurphy ease his way out of bed and silently cross down the aisle, past the sleep patients, toward the day room.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 as McMurphy crosses the day room, past the nurses' station where Turkle is asleep.
 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
 as McMurphy crosses down the hallway and stops at the mess hall door. He tries the handle. The door is locked. McMurphy looks up at the open transom, ponders it, then jumps up and grabs the door lintel. He tries to lift himself up, but can't make it when suddenly he is lifted up to the level of the transom by Bromden.
 McMurphy worms his way through the transom and disappears down the other side.
 CAMERA HOLDS on Bromden who waits. A long beat. There is a strange HUMMING SOUND HEARD O.S. Another beat, then the door opens.
 McMurphy smiles at Bromden.
Randle McMurphy:「pointing to the floor) Wait here, Chief. (more to himself as he starts down hall) Heh, heh, I'll show 'em who's crazy.」

narrator:INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT
 McMurphy is nudging Cheswick awake.
Randle McMurphy:「Hey, Cheswick! Wake up!」
CHESWICK:「waking up) Yeah, Mack, what is it?」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm leaving. Goodbye!」
CHESWICK:「sitting up) Where ya goin', Mac?」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh...」
narrator:McMurphy turns and crosses to Billy.
Randle McMurphy:「waking Billy) Hey, Billy. Billy boy, wake up and say goodbye to your ol' buddy.」
BILLY:「waking up) W-w-w-what is it, M-M-Mac?」
Randle McMurphy:「So long, kid.」
BILLY:「Wh-wh-wh-wh...」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh...」
narrator:McMurphy turns from the bewildered Billy and crosses to Martini.
Randle McMurphy:「nudging Martini awake) Psst! Hey, Martini, wake up!」
MARTINI:「waking up) Yeah, Mac?」
Randle McMurphy:「Bye-bye.」
narrator:McMurphy turns to Scanlon.

Randle McMurphy:「Scanlon! Hey, Scanlon, wake up!」
SCANLON:「waking up) Yeah, what's up?」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhhh. See ya around the ball park.」
narrator:McMurphy crosses to Fredrickson and wakes him.
FREDRICKSON:「waking up) What? What?」
Randle McMurphy:「So long, Freddy. Don't take any wooden nickles.」
FREDRICKSON:「sitting up) What?」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh...」
narrator:The other patients are sitting up, some of them getting out of bed as McMurphy turns to Sefelt who is snoring. McMurphy pinches his nose and Sefelt wakes up.
Randle McMurphy:「Bye-bye, pussy cat.」
narrator:McMurphy crosses to Taber.
Randle McMurphy:「waking Taber) Up an' at 'em, Taber.」
TABER:「waking up) What's going on?」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhhh. Time to say goodbye.」
narrator:McMurphy turns and crosses to Harding.

Randle McMurphy:「Hey, Hard-on. Wake up, Dumbo.」
narrator:Harding opens his eyes and looks at McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「Ya owe me twenty-five bucks.」
HARDING:「What for?」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm busting outta this place.」
narrator:HARDING That's nice. Send me a post card.
 Harding turns his back to McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「turning to the others who have gathered around) So long suckers.」
BILLY:「Wh-wh-where ya going, M-M-Mac?」
CHESWICK:「How ya gettin' out, Mac?」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh... That's for me to know an' you to find out.」
TABER:「Bullshit. You ain't got no way out!」
Randle McMurphy:「Oh, yeah?」
TABER:「Yeah!」
Randle McMurphy:「How much ya wanna bet?」
TABER:「Ten bucks.」
Randle McMurphy:「You're on. (to the others) Let's go! An' keep it quiet.」

narrator:McMurphy starts down the aisle. The others follow.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 as McMurphy and the other patients cross the day room, past the nurses' station, where Turkle shifts in his sleep.
 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
 as McMurphy and the patients cross down the hallway and enter the mess hall followed by Bromden.
 INT. MESS HALL - NIGHT
 Cheswick, Bromden, Martini, Scanlon, Sefelt, Fredrickson, Billy, Taber and McMurphy, stand looking at the dumbwaiter.
BILLY:「Wh-wh-what's d-d-down th-there, M-M Mac?」
TABER:「Where's it go?」
Randle McMurphy:「Out. It's the way out. So just keep it in your minds if ya ever wanna make use of it.」
narrator:TABER I don't believe it...
FREDRICKSON:「Neither do I...」
SEFELT:「Me too...」
MARTINI:「I wanna see it...」
SCANLON:「Me too! Me too!」
BILLY:「Y-y-yeah, p-p-prove it, M-M-Mac!」
CHESWICK:「Yeah, show us, Mac!」

Randle McMurphy:「Shhh. Wait a minute. You guys are gonna screw up my plans. So just gone on back to bed like nothin' happened.」
MARTINI:「No! I wanna go!」
SCANLON:「Me too! Me too!」
narrator:Several of the others chime in.
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh. Hold it down! I'll take you guys down, but ya gotta come right back up! 'Kay?」
narrator:PATIENTS (simultaneously) 'Kay, Mac!
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh... Remember this is a privilege, so I don't want none of you goons fuckin' up. Kay?」
narrator:PATIENTS (simultaneously) 'Kay, Mac!
Randle McMurphy:「Kay, let's see... (he checks the men out) Cheswick first ... then Billy... Martini... Scanlon... Sefelt... Fredrickson... Taber an' the Chief... 'Kay」
narrator:PATIENTS (simultaneously) 'Kay!
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh!」

narrator:INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT
 The patients are waiting in the tunnel, which is used as an underground connecting system to the institutional buildings, as McMurphy gets out of the dumbwaiter.
Randle McMurphy:「looking around) Where's Martini and Scanlon?」
CHESWICK:「pointing) They went that way.」
Randle McMurphy:「Charlie, ya can't ever let those goons outta ya sight! Understand!」
CHESWICK:「Right, Mack!」
narrator:Far down the tunnel Martini and Scanlon are briefly SEEN as they skitter across the tunnel.
SEFELT:「There they are!」
Randle McMurphy:「Hey, Martini! Psst! Scanlon! Ya dumb goons, come back here! (starting after them) Come on, let's get 'em!」
narrator:McMurphy starts down the tunnel. The others don't move.
Randle McMurphy:「calling back) Come on, you guys, let's stick together.」
narrator:The Acutes follow McMurphy. They run down to the intersection and turn the corner.
 No sign of Martini or Scanlon.
 Somewhere a DOOR is HEARD SLAMMING CLOSED and FOOTSTEPS are HEARD coming their way.

TABER:「Somebody's coming!」
Randle McMurphy:「Shhh! (he listens then) This way!」
narrator:McMurphy hustles the men round the corner as two aides pushing a gurney come wheeling by.
BILLY:「I-I-I th-th-think we sh-sh-should go back!」
SEFELT:「Yeah, my feet are gettin' cold.」
FREDRICKSON:「Mine, too!」
Randle McMurphy:「We'll go back just as soon as we find those guys! 'Kay?」
narrator:ACUTES (simultaneously) 'Kay, Mack!
 The band takes off down tbe tunnel, calling out in loud whispers, "Martini! Scanlon! Psst! Where are you?"
 Down one tunnel and up another -- till they turn a corner and see an open door.
 They go to the door and peer out. Steps lead up to the outside world.
Randle McMurphy:「They must be up there!」
CHESWICK:「Yeah!」
BILLY:「L-L-Let-'s go b-back!」
narrator:Several Acutes express the same desire.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on, don't crap out on me now. We got two buddies out there!」

BILLY:「I-I d-d-don't know! M-M-Miss R Ratched g-g-g-g...」
Randle McMurphy:「Fuck Miss Ratched!」
narrator:McMurphy crosses out and up the stairs.
 The Acutes look at each other. A beat, then:
Randle McMurphy:「O.S.) Wow! Look at this!」
narrator:The Acutes don't move.
Randle McMurphy:「O.S.) Hey, you guys, come on up here and take a gander at this!」
narrator:The Acutes inch their way out the door and up the steps.
 EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT
 as the Acutes join McMurphy to see the moon low in the sky, silhouetting the trees and buildings, and Martini chasing
 Scanlon across the wet grounds.
CHESWICK:「There they are!」
Randle McMurphy:「his attention elsewhere) Hey, what's that?」
narrator:SEVERAL ACUTES (simultaneously) What? Where?
Randle McMurphy:「pointing) Over there!」
SEFELT:「squinting) I don't know...」
BILLY:「I-i-it's a b-b-bus!」

Randle McMurphy:「A bus?」
BILLY:「Y-y-yes, a b-b-bus!」
Randle McMurphy:「Well, shoot, man! Whadaya say we take ourselves a little spin around the place.」
TABER:「We'll get in trouble...」
CHESWICK:「Yeah, maybe we ought to go back, Mac...」
FREDRICKSON:「Yeah, my feet are cold...」
SEFELT:「My feet hurt...」
BILLY:「I-I-I'm w-w-wet...」
Randle McMurphy:「walking towards the bus) Go ahead! Go back!」
narrator:The Acutes cast frightened looks at each other then go after McMurphy. Martini and Scanlon join them.
BILLY:「H-H-How d-d-do we g-g-get b-back?」
narrator:McMurphy has reached the bus and begins checking it out.
TABER:「Yeah, take us back to the dumbwaiter, Mac.」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm not going back in there. I told ya this was a one way trip. Now stand aside.」

narrator:McMurphy lifts the hood to the bus and begins jumping the wire. The Acutes stand helplessly by as the engine turns over and catches. McMurphy closes the hood and gets on the bus to a chorus of, "Please, Mac, take us back... Please..." McMurphy puts the bus in gear and the bus starts moving. The Acutes start running alongside of the bus calling out for McMurphy to take them back.
Randle McMurphy:「shouting to them) Get on assholes!」
narrator:They leap on.
 EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - ANOTHER ANGLE - NIGHT
 As the bus makes a full circle and stops alongside of Bromden.
Randle McMurphy:「waving Bromden onto the bus) Come on, Chief! Let's go!」

narrator:Bromden boards the bus. McMurphy lets out a war whoop as he closes the door and starts the bus moving.
 EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT
 as the bus picks up speed and churns across the grounds.
 INT. BUS - NIGHT
 the Acutes look out with wild-eyed excitement.
 EXT. INSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS - NIGHT
 as the bus careens out the main entrance and down the thoroughfare.
 INT. BUS - NIGHT
 as the Acutes cast worried looks at each other.
 EXT. HIGHWAY
 as the bus turns a corner past a sign that reads:
 DALLES 6, SALMON CREEK 8, DEPOE BAY 11, CAPE LOOKOUT 22, PORTLAND 46
 INT. BUS - NIGHT
 McMurphy is singing at the top of his lungs.
Randle McMurphy:「singing) Your horses are hungry, That's what she did say, Come sit down beside me, An' feed them some hay. My horses ain't hungry, They wontt eat your hay-ay-aeee...」
BILLY:「H-Hey, M-Mack.」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, kid?」
narrator:BILLY W-W-Where we g-g-going?
CHESWICK:「Yeah, where we going?」

Randle McMurphy:「I dunno. Where do ya wanna go?」
MARTINI:「I wanna go home!」
SCANLON:「Yeah, it's cold!」
MARTINI:「I'm hungry.」
TABER:「Yeah, we'll miss breakfast!」
Randle McMurphy:「Breakfast! Hell, I know just the place where we can chow down an' thaw out before we shoot back on home. 'Kay?」
BILLY:「K-Kay, M-Mack!」
Randle McMurphy:「singing) Soo, fare-the-weel, darlin'. I'm gone on my way, My wagons are loaded, My whip's in my hand...」
narrator:DISSOLVE TO:
 EXT. DEPOE BAY - DAWN
 The dawn is just cracking the horizon as the bus pulls up behind a corroded tin sheet building. A sign reads:
 DEPOE BAY, SEAMANIS SERVICE, SPORT FISHING, BOATS FOR CHARTER
 Beyond the boathouse is the dock with several fishing trawlers and beyond that -- the open sea.
 The door to the bus opens and McMurphy gets out.
Randle McMurphy:「as he steps out of the bus) This is it!」

narrator:as McMurphy walks directly to the wall, alongside the door, lifts the edge of the siding, comes up with a key, opens the door and enters.
 A beat, then the lights go on inside the building.
 SHOT OF BUS
 The Acutes' faces pressed against the windows, looking out.
 INT. SEAMAN'S BUILDING - DAWN
 as McMurphy lifts a cold bottle of beer out of a Coca-Cola cooler, opens it, takes a long pull on the bottle, then crosses to the heater and turns it on.
 Nearby, a sign reads: ALL EQUIPMENT CAN BE RENTED
 On the walls are old photographs of people with their prize catches. Fishing equipment, tackle and wet weather gear crowd the room.
 There is a counter which McMurphy walks behind and takes a bag of potato chips off a wall rack, full of beer nuts, hostess cupcakes, etc.
 McMurphy eyes the keyboard to the fishing boats. Several keys are there.
 INSERT - KEYBOARD
 with the names of the fishing boats: The Lark. Mary Ann. Noel. Annabella. The Capri.
 INT. BUILDING DEPOE BAY - DAWN
 McMurphy studying the board as the Acutes stick their heads in the door. They're all miserable and cold.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on in an' warm up. You can put some of that gear on to keep warm. An' there's beer an' Coke in the cooler an' some food over here...」

narrator:They hesitate.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on, don't be shy now, you're among friends.」
narrator:The Acutes come in, Bromden bringing up the rear.
 Martini goes for the candy. Scanlon goes for the Coke. Sefelt and Fredrickson go for the wet weather gear and boots. The others go to the heater. Bromden stands in the middle of the room.
Randle McMurphy:「Why don't one of you boys help ol' Chief there get warmed up?」
narrator:Billy goes to Bromden's aid as McMurphy crosses to a window and looks out.
 McMurphy turns and looks out the window. A long beat.
CHESWICK:「When do you think we'll be going back, Mack?」
Randle McMurphy:「looking out the window) Come here a minute, Cheswick. You, too, Sefelt. Hey, all you guys, come over here, I wanna show you somethin'.」
narrator:The Acutes cross to the window and look out, saying, "What? What is it? Whadaya lookin' at? I don't see a thing."
MARTINI:「Oh, look at the pretty boat.」

narrator:ACUTES' POV
 Nestled against the dock is a trim fishing trawler, beautifully framed in the bay window.
Randle McMurphy:「V.O.) Yeah, did you ever see a boat like that? Why, I'll bet you could go all the way to Hawaii in that boat! Tahiti... the Philippines... Tibet...」

narrator:CAMERA HOLDS on FULL SHOT of the boat.
 BACK TO SCENE
 A long beat, then we SEE the Acutes, wearing wet weather gear, complete with boots and squall hats, each man carrying soda pop, food, fishing equipment, etc., being led onto the boat by McMurphy who carries a case of beer.
 EXT. FISHING BOAT - DAWN
 as a white gorge of smoke and water pours from the stern and the boat pulls away from the dock, leaving a boiling foam of water.
 INT. SHIP'S BRIDGE - DAWN
 The entire crew is jammed into the bridge, McMurphy behind the wheel.
 McMURPHY'S POV
 as the dock and other fishing boats slip by.
 EXT. HARBOR JETTY - DAWN
 as the boat passes out of the harbor and heads for the open sea.
 DISSOLVE TO:
 EXT. BOAT DECK - DAY
 The sun is up. The engine is dead. The ballgame is HEARD OVER ship's RADIO. The men are scattered over the boat. Taber and McMurphy, beer in hand, are sunning themselves, listening to the ballgame. On the stern Martini and Scanlon are trying to rig up a pole. Fredrickson gives them a hand. Billy has a line out. So does Bromden and Sefelt who is seated nearby, fishing the ocean floor when he suddenly gets a bite and looks over the side, surprised. His line goes straight down into the depths. His glasses fall off into the water. Sefelt sighs and slowly begins reeling his line in.
 Billy gets a strike and starts fighting the fish.
BILLY:「H-H-Help!」
Randle McMurphy:「Ease up on the star drag, keep the tie up, up and work hell outta that fella.」

narrator:Martini gets a strike and loses it. Scanlon comes up and starts to take the pole from him.
SCANLON:「My turn.」
MARTINI:「hanging onto the pole) No.」
narrator:They start a tug of war. Fredrickson tries to break it up, when he gets a strike and his line spins out.
 Billy's fish breaks into the sun in a shower of silver scales, and he gets so excited he lets the end of the pole go down and the line snaps.
Randle McMurphy:「Up, I told you! Keep that tip up... up! You had you one big silver there.」
narrator:Fredrickson lands his salmon in a spray of scales and blood.
 The fish is flopping all over the deck. Billy grabs the fish and wrestles it down.
 Bromden lands a fish when --
SEFELT:「O.S.) Oh, my God! I see something!」
narrator:Everyone rushes over to Sefelt and looks down into the water.
 REVERSE SHOT
 Deep down in the water a gigantic white form slowly rises out of the depths, becoming solid, alive.
SCANLON:「Jesus God...」
MARTINI:「What is it?」
FREDRICKSON:「We'll never get that on the boat.」

narrator:The fish is now clearly SEEN.
BILLY:「calling) M-M-Mack! M-M-Mack!」
narrator:McMurphy pulls himself up.
Randle McMurphy:「What is it, kid?」
narrator:BILLY C-C-Come here and l-look at th this!
 McMurphy crosses down and looks over the side.
Randle McMurphy:「He's a big flounder. Could weigh two, three hundred. You got to lift him in with a winch.」
FREDRICKSON:「Does that mean we have to cut him loose?」
Randle McMurphy:「Like hell we will! We got the muscle standing right here. All we need is a couple gaffin' hooks and some rope.」
BILLY:「I-I-I'll get them.」
MARTINI:「Me, too.」
SCANLON:「Me, too.」
narrator:McMurphy turns to Sefelt who is sweating under the strain.
Randle McMurphy:「Steady does it, Sefelt!」

narrator:SEFELT'S POV
 The massive fish is closer to the surface.
 DISSOLVE TO:
 BACK TO SCENE
 All the men are standing by as gaffing hooks and rope are made ready. The fish is gaffed and slowly hauled out of the water.
 McMurphy and Bromden lean over, held by the others, grab the big fish by its gills and, with a heave-ho, the fish is slid in and flopped to the bottom of the boat. The men go sprawling over the big fish. There's a lot of laughter, handshakes and back-slapping going on when --
 VOICE (over bull horn) All right! Stand to! Stand to!
 The men look up.
 REVERSE SHOT - ACUTES' POV
 Off the bow is a Coast Guard cutter, and on the deck stands Doctor Spivey, Washington, Warren and several other aides dressed in white.
 INT. HALLWAY - STATE HOSPITAL - LATE AFTERNOON
 as the Acutes, sunburned and covered with dried brine and fish scales, are escorted down the hallway by Washington, Warren and Doctor Spivey.
 It's a triumphant procession as they wheel the giant flounder with a sheet over it on a gurney, holding up their catches for all to see.
 McMurphy is lagging a bit behind as they pass the mess hall where workmen are busy installing a security screen over the transom, while inside the mess hall another workman is SEEN welding a lock on the dumbwaiter.
 INT. DAY ROOM
 as Big Nurse steps out of the Nurses' Station.
SPIVEY:「to Big Nurse) Here they are, Miss Ratched. Safe and sound!」
BIG NURSE:「Good. Well, boys, did you enjoy yourselves?」
narrator:A burst of exuberance as the inmates hold up their fish.
FREDRICKSON:「to Sefelt) Show her the one you caught, Jim.」
narrator:Sefelt whips the sheet off the big fish.
BIG NURSE:「My, my...」
narrator:No one can find superlatives or gestures big enough to describe his catching of the big fish, "brought it in himself" AD LIB.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, ya should've come along with us, Miss Ratched, an' gotten a little sun on your cheeks and maybe caught a fish or two.」

BIG NURSE:「Mr. McMurphy, you had no right to take these men out with you!」
Randle McMurphy:「loudly) Yeah, that's kind of crazy, ain't it!」
BIG NURSE:「No, it was irresponsible!」
narrator:Big Nurse turns to the others, leaving McMurphy dangling.
BIG NURSE:「(respectfully) That's quite a catch, Jim. Whaat are you going to do with it?」
MARTINI:「crossing to McMurphy) Gimme a cigarette!」
SEFELT:「I thought I might donate it to the mess hall.」
Randle McMurphy:「reaches in his pocket; he has none) I don't have any.」
narrator:AD LIBS: "They could use it." "Take a picture first."
BIG NURSE:「That's an excellent idea. Now, why don't you boys place your fish on the gurney and we'll see to it that everyone enjoys a fresh fish dinner.」
narrator:The men toss their fish on the gurney as Martini joins the group and starts hitting the others up for a cigarette. All he gets for his troubles are a series of "No," "Get lost," "I don't have any."

BIG NURSE:「Thank you, boys. Now if you'll just go along with Mister Washington to the showers, supper is in half an hour.」
narrator:The inmates start AD LIBBING and laughing, "We're not hungry," as Martini sees Harding light up a cigarette and crosses to him.
MARTINI:「to Harding) Gimme a cigarette!」
HARDING:「No!」
MARTINI:「Why not?」
HARDING:「I'm not running a charity ward...」
narrator:Martini snaps the cigarette out of Harding's hand, and takes off with Harding chasing him.
 Martini dashes around the room, pulling chairs in Harding's way, taking a drag on the cigarette whenever he can.
 Harding corners Martini, but Martini tosses the cigarette over Harding's head to Scanlon.
 Scanlon takes off with Harding after him, absolutely livid.
 Scanlon passes to Billy who passes to Martini. Everyone in the room is getting wired.
 Martini throws it away as Harding jumps him and nails him to the floor.
MARTINI:「holding his hands up; empty) All gone! All gone! Don't hit! Don't hit!」
narrator:Harding starts pounding Martini's head on the floor when Billy and Scanlon jump Harding and start pounding him.
 Fredrickson picks up the cigarette and stands there watching the fight as he smokes the cigarette as Washington, Warren and Miller move in and start separating the men.
 McMurphy, watching the fight, sighs, then deliberately crosses toward the Nurses' Station.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - MISS PILBOW'S POV - DAY
 as McMurphy reaches the Nurses' Station and puts his hand through the plate glass window, his fist stopping inches from Miss Pilbow's startled face. Miss Pilbow's scream is added to the SOUND OF THE SHATTERED WINDOW.
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 McMurphy reaches in and picks up his carton of cigarettes.
Randle McMurphy:「I'm sure sorry, ma'am. Gawd, but I am. That window glass was so clean I didn't even see it...」

narrator:McMurphy turns and crosses back to the day room, opening the carton of cigarettes as he goes.
Randle McMurphy:「You guys want cigarettes! Here's the goddamn cigarettes!」
narrator:McMurphy starts tossing packages of cigarettes into the mass of struggling bodies as Washington grabs McMurphy by the arm and tries to wheel him away.
 McMurphy shakes him off and throws a pack of cigarettes in Washington's face.
 Washington goes after McMurphy, grabs him, and drives him against the wall, right next to Bromden, who watches as McMurphy shoves Washington away, goes into a crouch and starts circling Washington. Washington dances in and out, chipping away at McMurphy's face until McMurphy drives his fist square into Washington's white, starched chest, drawing him against the wall.
 McMurphy moves in for the kill.
WASHINGTON:「Warren! Miller!」

narrator:The Acutes have stopped fighting and are watching.
 McMurphy tags Washington, then is grabbed from behind by Warren, who pulls him back.
 Washington moves in and goes to work on McMurphy, when Bromden grabs Washington, from behind, in a bear hug.
 Miller jumps on Bromden's back. Bromden, still holding Washington, backs up into the wall, squashing Miller, who screams out.
 EXT. HALLWAY TO DISTURBANCE WARD - LATE AFTERNOON
 as McMurphy, bruised from the fight, and Bromden, handcuffed to a special belt, wait while an aide unlocks the first of a double set of heavy security doors.
 The first door is locked, leaving McMurphy, Bromden, and the three aides crammed in the small space between the two doors while another aide opens the second door and McMurphy and Bromden step through, followed by the aides.
 INT. DISTURBANCE WARD - LATE AFTERNOON
 As the aide locks the door behind them, the other aides lead Bromden and McMurphy toward a bench, where they unshackle them.
 AIDE (pointing to a bench) Wait over there...
 The three aides go down the hall, leaving McMurphy and Bromden who sit and look at their new surroundings. There is a man sitting next to them.
 McMURPHY'S POV
 The architecture is the same as the ward we left below, but it is the atmosphere that is different. A heaviness pervades all. Heavily sedated patients sit isolated from each other. Others stand shifting from one foot to the other, while others walk up and down the hallway, their locomotive powers not unlike that of Parkinson's Disease (caused by too much sedation).
 Suddenly, one patient gets up, speaking very angrily, shouting incoherently at no one; he crosses the hall and enters a side room. An aide goes in after him. A long beat, then the aide comes out with the patient and gently leads him back to his seat, talking softly to the man.
 Further down the hallway, a gurney is wheeled out of the east room with a patient lying on it, out cold; he is wheeled further down the hall to the men's dorms, where he is left to sleep it off.
 Two aides come out of the EST room and head in McMurphy's direction, where one of the aides motions to the patient sitting next to McMurpby.
 AIDE (approaching him very gently) Come on, Joey... this isn't going to hurt you... good for you... make you feel better...
 The patient clings to the bench, terrified, weeping.
 The aides peel him off the bench and escort him down the hall to the EST room.
 ANOTHER ANGLE
 As McMurphy watches the patient go, he takes out a package of gum. Takes a stick for himself and gives Bromden one. McMurphy turns back to his own thoughts.
BROMDEN:「Thank you.」
narrator:McMurphy looks up. A long beat.
Randle McMurphy:「Say it again.」

BROMDEN:「Thank you.」
narrator:Another beat.
Randle McMurphy:「Say... God Bless America!」
BROMDEN:「God Bless America.」
Randle McMurphy:「slapping his thigh) Goddammit, you sly son-of-a-bitch! Does anybody else know?」
narrator:BROMDEN No.
Randle McMurphy:「Shit! This is too much! (his mind going a mile a minute) Chief, I tell you we're gonna bust outta this place an' make it all the way to Canada before they know what bit 'em.」
narrator:BROMDEN Ca-na-da...
Randle McMurphy:「Ya like that, Chief, huh?」
BROMDEN:「Yeah...」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, well, well, well. 'Bout time the rest of the world got a gander at Big Chief Bromden cuttin' down the boulevard, stopping just long enough for virgins... Oh, man, I tell you, I tell you, you'll have women trippin' you and beating you to the floor...」
BROMDEN:「Ca-na-da...」

Randle McMurphy:「Shhh, Chief, don't talk. Never talk! Remember, this is just between you an' me. Do ya understand?」
narrator:Bromden nods.
NURSE ITSU:「O.S.) Mister McMurphy.」
narrator:McMurphy turns to see Nurse Itsu. The two aides are standing behind her.
Randle McMurphy:「recognizing a long-lost friend) Hey, how ya doin'?」
NURSE ITSU:「Fine, thank you. (offering pills) Here, please take these.」
Randle McMurphy:「What are they?」
NURSE ITSU:「To help you relax... please...」
narrator:McMurphy takes the pills and downs them. Bromden takes his pills.
NURSE ITSU:「Please take off your shoes.」
narrator:McMurphy takes off his shoes.
NURSE ITSU:「Please follow me.」
Randle McMurphy:「rising, thumbs up) You an' me, Chief.」
narrator:McMurphy, flanked by the two aides, follows Nurse Itsu to the EST room.
Randle McMurphy:「to Itsu) You know, I never got your name.」

NURSE ITSU:「stopping at the door) Miss Itsu. (indicating the room) In here, please.」
Randle McMurphy:「You comin' in to hold my hand?」
NURSE ITSU:「No...」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah... Well, see ya around, Itsu.」
narrator:Itsu smiles at McMurphy.
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah...」
narrator:McMurphy gives Bromden one last wave and goes in.
 Bromden watches the door close behind McMurphy.
 INT. EST ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
 There are four other aides in there, standing around an empty gurney.
 A DOCTOR is at the head of the gurney, a NURSE alongside of him.
Randle McMurphy:「as he enters) Hi...」
narrator:McMurphy looks around at the six aides.
Randle McMurphy:「You boys can take a cigarette break now...」
narrator:The Nurse smiles at him.
 DOCTOR That's all right, Mister McMurphy, just climb on the bed and lie down...
Randle McMurphy:「Whatever you say, Doc...」

narrator:McMurphy climbs on the bed and lies down.
 The Doctor moves around to the side of the bed and takes McMurphy's pulse, while the Nurse dips her fingers into a jar of salve.
 DOCTOR (to McMurphy) This won't hurt you at all...
Randle McMurphy:「Uh, uh...」
narrator:The Nurse starts applying salve to McMurphy's temples.
Randle McMurphy:「What's that for?」
narrator:NURSE Conductant.
Randle McMurphy:「smiling up at her) Surely, goodness and mercy will follow this, eh, honey?」

narrator:DOCTOR (holding a mouthpiece) Please, put this in your mouth...
 McMurphy takes the bit in his teeth. The Doctor moves back to the head of the gurney and places the thongs on McMurphy's temples.
 The Doctor nods to the six aides, who move in and gently place their hands, in a very professional manner, on McMurphy's knees, hips and shoulders. Once set, the Doctor turns to his controls.
 SHOT OF McMURPHY
 as he looks around, not nearly as scared as he is mystified by the whole process, when suddenly, without warning, McMurphy is hit by the shock. His face is a contorted mask of surprise and pain. His whole body caught in a sudden spasm. A moment of rigidity, then McMurphy passes out and his body relaxes. Another moment, then a series of violent body spasms begin flowing down his body. Now the aides' function is very clear, as they press down, holding McMurphy firmly to the gurney, until the last spasm subsides.
 SLOW FADE OUT TO:
 FADE IN:
 INT. DAY ROOM - DAY
 A Group Meeting is in progress. Doctor Spivey is there.
BIG NURSE:「to Sefelt) It's been brought to my attention that you're giving Mister Fredrickson your medication, aren't you, Mister Sefelt?」
SEFELT:「It's the Dilantin that makes my gums soft!」
BIG NURSE:「Now, Jim, you must be honest with yourself.」
narrator:At the end of the hall, the door opens and McMurphy and Bromden enter the visitors' room, accompanied by Washington and Warren. They cross to the security gate, open it and pass into the hallway.
 Washington and Warren disappear into a room, leaving McMurphy and Bromden, who walk slowly towards the day room.
 The Group Meeting continues over as Fredrickson raises his hand.
BIG NURSE:「Yes, Mister Fredrickson?」
FREDRICKSON:「I wanna know why the dorm has to be locked in the daytime and on weekends?」
TABER:「Yeah, why can't a fellow even have the weekends to himself?」
CHESWICK:「standing up) Yeah, whadabout our cigarettes?」
BIG NURSE:「Sit down, Mister Cheswick, and wait your turn!」
narrator:He sits.
BIG NURSE:「If the dorms were left open, you would just return to bed after breakfast...」
FREDRICKSON:「So what? Is it a mortal sin? I mean, normal people get to sleep late on weekends...」
BIG NURSE:「With few exceptions, time spent in the company of others is therapeutic, while every minute spent brooding alone only increases separation.」
CHESWICK:「jumping up as he sees McMurphy) Mack!」

narrator:Everyone looks at McMurphy and Bromden.
 Bromden is as he always was, as McMurphy slowly drags himself into the day room. He looks like a zombie as he takes the room in. Then, suddenly, he slaps his thigh. McMURPHY Hey, hey, you ding-a-lings, you creeps, you goons...
 He enters the room doing a jig. The Acutes' faces light up.
Randle McMurphy:「I got ten thousand watts and hot to trot. First woman takes me on is gonna light up like a pinball machine an' pay off in silver dollars...」
narrator:McMurphy does a full circle of the room, greeting the Chronics. But it's an effort for him. His voice is slower, his footwork slightly out of sync.
BILLY:「H-h-how's it g-g-going, Mack?」
Randle McMurphy:「Just fine, Billy boy, just fine. Full of piss an' vinegar! They checked my plugs and cleaned my points...」
BIG NURSE:「Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「turning) Yes, ma'am?」
BIG NURSE:「Welcome back.」
Randle McMurphy:「Thank you, ma'am.」
BIG NURSE:「I hope everything is settled.」

Randle McMurphy:「Ma'am, I'm as gentle as a puppy dog. Why, I haven't licked the tar out of an aide for two weeks! Hi ya, Doc!」
narrator:Spivey greets McMurphy.
 BIG NURSE Good. Why don't you join us?
Randle McMurphy:「Why, thank you, ma'am... (he gets a seat and sits heavily) Whew. Man, I tell you, that place up there is somethin' else! (pulling it together) Well, ya boys been practicin' up for the big game? (no response) I figured as much...」
BILLY:「W-W-We h-heard y-you w-were n-never c-c-coming back!」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, well, let me tell ya somethin'... While I was up there gettin' in-lightened, I came up with one hellava plan...」
narrator:A great sadness suddenly sweeps over McMurphy's face and he breaks off.
BILLY:「Wh-wh-what p-plan, M-Mack!」
narrator:No response from McMurphy.
HARDING:「What's your plan, Mack?」

Randle McMurphy:「coming out of it) Plan?... Oh, yeah, the plan... Yeah...」
narrator:McMurphy gets up and crosses to the window, where he joins Bromden who is looking out the window.
 REACTION SHOT of the others as they look at McMurphy and each other with quizzical looks.
 INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY
 On the court both teams are lined up taking photographs for the local newspaper. The bulb pops a few times.
 PHOTOGRAPHER (wrapping it up) Thank you, boys.
 The line breaks up. McMurphy crosses to Big Nurse, who sits in the front row.
 It's the big Saturday game between the Acutes and Aides, as spectators enter the gymnasium already half-filled with male and female patients, staff members and visitors.
 Doctor Spivey stands nearby at the timers' table, basketball in hand, whistle around his neck, talking to the timer.
Randle McMurphy:「Miss Ratched, would you please save a space for my aunt? She's comin' down from Portland.」
BIG NURSE:「Certainly, Mister McMurphy, with pleasure.」
Randle McMurphy:「Thank you, ma'am...」
narrator:O.S. the WHISTLE BLOWS.

Randle McMurphy:「Gotta go now, ma'am...」
BIG NURSE:「Yes. Good luck, Mister McMurphy.」
Randle McMurphy:「Thank you, ma'am.」
narrator:McMurphy crosses onto the court. Big Nurse watches him go.
 BASKETBALL COURT
 Doctor Spivey is at half-court, basketball in hand as the players take up their positions: Washington faces McMurphy for the jump at center. Harding and Billy are playing guard with Warren and Miller on them. Martini and Scanlon are in the forward position, with the two white Aides covering them. The other Acutes sit on the bench as substitutes.
Randle McMurphy:「to Washington) Hey, Sam, bet ya two bucks ya lose.」
WASHINGTON:「Shit, man, tha' ain't even worth considerin'.」
Randle McMurphy:「How 'bout twenty?」
WASHINGTON:「Now you talkin'.」
Randle McMurphy:「Bet!」
WASHINGTON:「Bet you ass...」
Randle McMurphy:「to Spivey) You're a witness, Doc!」
SPIVEY:「Me? I didn't hear a thing! Let's play ball!」

narrator:Spivey checks the court, then blows the whistle as he tosses the ball into the air.
 Washington taps the ball to Warren, who passes to Miller, who hands off to Washington, who goes up for a layup. Two points. The Acutes haven't even moved from their spots. The scoreboard reads: AIDES 2 PATIENTS 0.
Randle McMurphy:「taking the ball out) Come on, wake up, you ding-a-lings. The game is on.」
narrator:The Acutes snap to and McMurphy passes the ball into Harding, who fiercely dribbles down court, McMurphy running alongside him.
Randle McMurphy:「Pass the ball, Harding... (no pass) Don't hang onto it... (no response) Pass it, goddammit!」
narrator:Harding dribbles into the corner and finds himself bottled in by two Aides.
Randle McMurphy:「Harding, here, over here!」
narrator:The ball is snagged from Harding's hands by an Aide, who passes it down court to another Aide, who turns and makes another basket.
 Scoreboard: AIDES 4 PATIENTS 0
Randle McMurphy:「to Harding) Ya deaf! I said pass the ball!」

HARDING:「What are you talking about??? Everybody was covered!!! Everybody was covered!!!」
Randle McMurphy:「I was open! Come on, let's play ball!」
narrator:McMurphy and Harding turn to see Martini, down court, passing the ball into Billy.
WASHINGTON:「slapping his hands) Gimme tha' ball!」
narrator:Billy panics and hands the ball to Washington, who turns around and makes another basket. Score: AIDES 6 PATIENTS 0.
 McMurphy and Harding run down court, McMurphy taking the ball away from Martini, who would like to bring it in.
Randle McMurphy:「to Washington) What kind of crap is that???」
WASHINGTON:「Jus' playin' the game, sucker...」
narrator:Washington chuckles and trots on down court.
Randle McMurphy:「to Martini) Get down there where ya belong, Martini. You, too, Scanlon. (tosses ball to Harding) You take it out, Harding!」
narrator:Harding takes the ball and passes it in to McMurphy, who turns and dribbles down court exactly like Harding did.

HARDING:「running alongside McMurphy) Pass the ball! (no response) Pass it! (no response) Pass it! Pass it! I'm open, McMurphy, pass the ball!」
narrator:McMurphy stops dead in his tracks and flings the ball at Harding. The ball bounces off Harding's head and goes out of bounds. The WHISTLE BLOWS. Harding spins a few times.
Randle McMurphy:「O.S.) Harding, get back here!」
narrator:Harding turns to see the other team go by. They score another basket. Score: AIDES 8 PATIENTS 0.
 Billy takes the ball and passes into McMurphy, who turns to see CANDY enter the gym, with her friend, ROSE.
Randle McMurphy:「calling out) Candy. Candy, over here. (to Doctor Spivey) Hey, Doc, time out.」
SPIVEY:「blowing his whistle) Time out!」
narrator:McMurphy tosses the ball to Spivey, then crosses the court to Candy and Rose, who have had a couple of drinks on the way down.
CANDY:「Mack, you sonofabitch, you ol' fucker, how've you been?」

Randle McMurphy:「swinging her around in his arms) Terrific, baby, terrific! (to Rose) Hi ya doin', Rose?」
ROSE:「Okay, Mack! (looking around) Whoowe, Candy girl, are we in an insane asylum or ain't we?」
Randle McMurphy:「to Candy) How's your ass been holdin' up, honey?」
narrator:Candy pokes her ass at McMurphy. He gives it a squeeze. O.S. a WHISTLE BLOWS.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on, girls, we're holding up the game!」
narrator:McMurphy leads the two ladies across the court.
 The entire gymnasium is riveted on the three of them. As they reach Big Nurse:
Randle McMurphy:「Miss Ratched, this is my Aunt Candy and her friend Rose...」
narrator:Greetings are exchanged.
Randle McMurphy:「Miss Ratched was kind enough to save you ladies a seat...」
narrator:The two ladies wedge themselves in next to Big Nurse. O.S. the WHISTLE BLOWS.
Randle McMurphy:「Talk to ya at half time!」
narrator:McMurphy turns and crosses onto the court.

CANDY:「calling after him) Sock it to 'em, kid!」
ROSE:「taking in the players) Are they all crazies?」
BIG NURSE:「No.」
ROSE:「Oh, just those guys dressed in white?」
BIG NURSE:「No, miss, it's the other way around.」
ROSE:「Well, you could've fooled me.」
narrator:On the court, McMurphy throws the ball to Martini.
 Martini throws the ball to McMurphy.
 McMurphy throws the ball back to Martini.
 Martini throws the ball into the stands.
 The WHISTLE BLOWS O.S.
Randle McMurphy:「Whadaya doin', there's no one there!」
MARTINI:「I saw 'em! I saw 'em.」
HARDING:「O.S.) (shouting) Mack, get back here!」
narrator:McMurphy turns to see the other team go by and score a basket.
 Billy passes the ball into MeMurphy.
MARTINI:「Gimme the ball!」
Randle McMurphy:「holding the ball) Okay, Martini. That's okay. Now you watch me.」

narrator:McMurphy dribbles the ball down the sideline. Stops.
 Goes into his routine of ball tricks: faking one way, then the other, over his head, under his legs, finally ending on a pass behind his back which goes straight into Washington's hands. Washington dribbles down court for an easy layup.
 Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 0
Randle McMurphy:「to Spivey) Time out!」
SPIVEY:「blowing his whistle) Time out!」
Randle McMurphy:「shouting to Timer) Replacement coming in! Harding out!」
narrator:McMurphy crosses to Bromden, takes his hand, and leads him onto the court and under the Acutes' basket, where he maneuvers him into the proper position. Then McMurphy raises his hands above his head and Bromden follows suit.
Randle McMurphy:「starting back up court) Time in! (sees Harding still on court) Hold it! Time out! (to Harding) I said Harding out!」
HARDING:「I refuse!」
Randle McMurphy:「I said out!」
HARDING:「casting a quick look at his wife) No!」
Randle McMurphy:「I'm the coach!」
HARDING:「I just started!」

Randle McMurphy:「You can come back later!」
HARDING:「I don't trust you!」
Randle McMurphy:「looking for another victim) Scanlon out!」
SCANLON:「No!」
Randle McMurphy:「Martini out!」
MARTINI:「No!」
narrator:McMurphy looks at Billy.
BILLY:「I-I-I-I-I'll g-g-g-go, M-M-Mack...」
Randle McMurphy:「Good boy, thank you, Billy.」

narrator:Billy goes off and sits by Big Nurse. Now, the lineup on the bench is Billy, Big Nurse, Candy and Rose.
 Spivey blows the whistle.
 Under the Aides' basket, Harding passes the ball into McMurphy, who dribbles to half court, takes his mark, and lobs the ball over the outstretched arms of the Aides right into Bromden's waiting hands. Bromden turns and slams the ball into the basket.
 The crowd goes bananas. Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 2
 Bromden walks in majestic dignity the full length of the court and takes up his position under the Aides' basket, while McMurphy and his teammates have been putting tremendous pressure on the Aides, not allowing them to pass the ball in.
 As soon as McMurphy sees that Bromden is firmly set, hands held up, under the Aides' basket, McMurphy turns and runs down court, followed by the other Acutes, where they take up their defensive position.
 Washington and the Aides easily bring the ball down court, work themselves into position, and take a shot at the basket, which Bromden swats aside.
 Each Aide gets a shot at the basket, and each time Bromden swats it aside; sending the last swat into McMurphy's waiting hands.
 McMurphy dribbles the ball up court, where he runs into heavy pressure from Washington.
HARDING:「off to the side of McMurphy) McMurphy, pass the ball!」
narrator:McMurphy passes the ball to Harding and cuts toward the basket.
Randle McMurphy:「as he cuts past Harding) Harding, pass the ball!」

narrator:Harding ignores McMurphy, as he runs by, and throws the ball to Bromden, who turns and slams the ball into the basket.
 The crowd goes bananas.
 Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 4
CANDY:「at the top of her lungs) Atta boy, Mack! (to Big Nurse) What's he in for?」
BIG NURSE:「Who?」
CANDY:「Mack!」
BIG NURSE:「Miss, it's a complicated case. It would take too long to explain.」
CANDY:「Yeah, well, he looks like hell!」
narrator:CHEERS are HEARD O.S. Candy turns back to the game.
 CAMERA HOLDS on Candy, Big Nurse and Billy, who is staring at Candy.
BIG NURSE:「to Billy) Billy, it's not polite to stare!」
narrator:Billy sinks back, thinks it over, then presses forward.
BILLY:「to Candy) Miss!」
narrator:Candy looks at Billy.
BILLY:「Hi!」
CANDY:「giving him a big smile) Hi...」
narrator:Billy sinks back in his seat.
 On the court, McMurphy dribbles down to half court where he is stopped by Washington and Warren, who put the squeeze on him. McMurphy turns and gives them his ass to contend with, then manages to throw the ball under his legs and Washington's legs. The ball rolls to Martini, who scoops it up and throwing it wildly away, the ball ricochets off the backboard and goes in for two points.
 The crowd goes bananas. Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 6
 Bromden starts striding down court when the Aides make a fast break past him, but miss their shot.
 McMurphy retrieves the ball as Bromden, not more than several feet from his own basket, does an about-face and returns to his basket where he turns to see McMurphy lob the ball full court to Bromden, who catches the ball on one bounce, turns and slams the ball in for another basket.
 Score: AIDES 10 PATIENTS 8
 The crowd goes bananas and Bromden turns and starts striding down the court when he sees McMurphy at the far end of the court yelling at him.
Randle McMurphy:「yelling and gesturing) Run, Chief, run!」

narrator:Bromden gets the idea and starts loping down court abreast of Washington, who is making another fast break towards his own basket.
 Washington and Bromden go up together and Bromden swats the ball to Scanlon.
Randle McMurphy:「yelling and gesturing) Run, Chief, run!」
narrator:Bromden starts running towards his own basket, Washington hot on his heels, when the ball is passed to him and he goes up, makes the point, but takes a bad spill, crashing head over heels to the floor.
 The crowd gasps. The WHISTLE BLOWS.
SPIVEY:「shouting) Foul!」
narrator:As McMurphy charges across court and grabs Washington by his shirt...
Randle McMurphy:「breathing in Washington's face) Ya fuckin' coon, you're not on the ward now!」
WASHINGTON:「cool as a cucumber) Take you han's offa me!」
narrator:Spivey comes running, blowing his whistle.
SPIVEY:「Break it up, boys! (to Timer) Point counts. One free throw!」

narrator:McMurphy pushes Washington away and turns to Bromden, who is being helped off the floor by Harding, as...
 MARTINI AND SCANLON Great shot, Chief! Ya okay? You're doin' great!
 They lead Bromden to the foul line.
Randle McMurphy:「to Washington as they line up at the foul line) We got your black ass now, Washington, wanna bet another twenty?」
WASHINGTON:「No way...」
narrator:Bromden takes the ball at the foul line. Sets himself up and lobs the ball underhand. It goes in.
 The crowd goes wild.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT
 The patients are asleep except for Bromden who sits on the edge of his bed watching McMurphy, his face pressed against the window, looking out.
TURKLE:「approaching) What you boys doin' up at this ungodly time o' the night?」
Randle McMurphy:「Prayin', brother. Prayin'.」
narrator:TURKLE Well, you boys finish it up an' climb back into your beds. 'Kay?
Randle McMurphy:「Kay...」

narrator:The men slide into their beds and Turkle goes off, clucking to himself.
 A beat, then McMurphy rushes back to the window and looks out.
 McMURPHY'S POV
 Outside, in the dark, Candy and Rose are seen wandering around.
 REVERSE ANGLE - BROMDEN AND McMURPHY
Randle McMurphy:「There they are, Chief!」
narrator:McMurphy tries to get the girl's attention and fails.
Randle McMurphy:「Where are they goin'?」
narrator:McMurphy takes off, towards the day room, followed by Bromden.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 As the two of them cross into the day room heading for the window, Turkle sticks his head out of the nurses' station.
TURKLE:「I thought I told you boys to go to bed!」
Randle McMurphy:「flagging the girls) Our prayers have been answered, Turkle! Our prayers have been answered!」
narrator:McMURPHY'S POV
 as we SEE the girls coming.
 REVERSE ANGLE
TURKLE:「Oh yeah...」
Randle McMurphy:「I tell ya, there's an angel of mercy standing out there, Turkle.」
TURKLE:「Hallelujah, brother, now get back in bed!」

Randle McMurphy:「Come an' see.」
narrator:Turkle comes out of the nurses' station, leaving the side window open.
TURKLE:「crossing to McMurphy) That angel of mercy, he ain't a she, is he?」
Randle McMurphy:「You's better believe it, brother!」
narrator:Turkle reaches the window and sees the girls outside.
 CANDY and ROSE'S POV - THE MEN looking out.
 BACK TO SCENE
 as Turkle turns to McMurphy.
 TURKLE Ah believe ya, brother. Ah believe ya!
Randle McMurphy:「taking Turkle aside; holds up $20 bill) Now, wouldn't you pray for twenty bucks, a bottle booze an' a piece of that angel cake?」
TURKLE:「taking the $20 and reaching for his keys) Ah'm on my knees, brother, ah'm on my knees.」
narrator:Turkle unlocks the security screen and raises the window.
 McMurphy sticks his head out the window.
 CANDY AND ROSE (both slightly tipsy) Hiya, Mack.
Randle McMurphy:「Hiya, girls...」
TURKLE:「Shhh...」

narrator:Candy passes a heavy bag of bottles in. Then McMurphy and Turkle help her in. Her dress is above her thighs, her ass visible as she swings over the windowsill and into McMurphy's arms.
CANDY:「Whew! Made it!」
Randle McMurphy:「embracing Candy) Man, you look good 'nough to eat!」
CANDY:「Yeah, well you look like hell warmed over...」
ROSE:「O.S.) Hey, pssst! Whadda 'bout me?」
narrator:Turkle turns to help Rose in, but she's not as easy to handle, being a good deal heavier and twice as plastered as Candy.
TURKLE:「Hey, Mac! Gimme a hand, will ya!」
narrator:McMurphy disengages himself from Candy and lends Turkle a hand. Rose is finally hauled into the room.
ROSE:「giggling; loud) Whew! Hiya, boys!」
TURKLE:「Shhh... let's move it away from the window...」
narrator:The group shifts a few feet as Turkle closes the window and locks the screen. McMurphy turns back to Candy.
Randle McMurphy:「arms open) Come here, sugar...」

narrator:Candy moves into McMurphy's arms as Rose, straightening her dress, turns to see Bromden looming. Rose SCREAMS.
TURKLE:「What happened?」
ROSE:「backing into Turkle) What's that?」
TURKLE:「mystified) What?」
ROSE:「pointing at Bromden) That!」
TURKLE:「Oh, that. That ain't nothin' to be afraid of, ma'am. Just ol Chief Bromden. That's all...」
ROSE:「Is he one of the loonies?」
Randle McMurphy:「He's a patient, Rose...」
narrator:ROSE Oh, yeah...
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah...」
narrator:ROSE (approaching Bromden tentatively) Hi ya, big boy? How's it goin'? Like it in here?
Randle McMurphy:「He can't hear you, Rose. He's just a big deaf an' dumb indian...」
CANDY:「Pssst! Hey Rose! There they are!」
ROSE:「looking around) What? Where?」
narrator:CANDY points to the patients sleeping in the men's dorm.
CANDY:「In there.」

ROSE:「Wow! They're so quiet.」
TURKLE:「They're sleeping, Miss. They're sleeping. An' we gotta keep it down so we don't disturb their sleep.」
ROSE:「Are they dangerous when they're awake?」
TURKLE:「Oh, no, Miss. Not these loonies. These are nice guys. Nice guys.」
CANDY:「What's that smell?」
TURKLE:「What smell?」
CANDY:「Smells weird. Smells like pneumonia.」
TURKLE:「Ammonia, Miss...」
ROSE:「Smells like piss. Is this real, Candy? Is this really real? I mean we are in an insane asylum, an' I wanna know how we got ourselves into this scene.」
TURKLE:「Shhh, please, Miss. Keep it down...」
narrator:Rose turns to McMurphy who has opened a bottle of booze and is taking a long pull.
ROSE:「to McMurphy) Who is he?」
Randle McMurphy:「passing the bottle to Turkle) He's in charge.」
narrator:ROSE Are you a doctor?
TURKLE:「passing the bottle to Rose) Not exactly, Miss. Not exactly.」

ROSE:「drinking and passing the bottle to Candy) Yeah, well, I'll tell ya somethin'. I'll tell ya somethin'. I had this boyfriend, Chuck. (to McMurphy) Ya know him, Mac. Ya remember, Chuck.」
Randle McMurphy:「Sure, I know Chuck. I know him.」
ROSE:「Well, listen to this. He got mad at me one day. Boy, did he get mad at me. He took the light bulb, ya know. I thought he was going to cram it right up me, ya know. But he ate it. He ate the whole fucking light bulb. (to Turkle) Now, tell me! Is he crazy? Tell me! Is he crazy?」
TURKLE:「Well, Miss... I would say... I would say, yes. Yes, he's crazy.」
ROSE:「I thought so.」
TURKLE:「Is he in an asylum?」
ROSE:「He's dead.」
TURKLE:「Oh, I see. He was a very sick man. Very sick.」
ROSE:「That's what I told his mother. And she said I was crazy. Her son ate the whole fucking light bulb and she said I was crazy.」

TURKLE:「I don't know anything about that, Miss. I would have to examine you first...」
ROSE:「You ol' fucker!」
TURKLE:「Well, I'm running a risk by letting you in, Miss. You know I'm runnin' a risk of gettin' my black ass fired. If you understand what I mean...」
Randle McMurphy:「Sure, she understands what you mean. She's not dumb. Why do you think Rose came to visit us? Rose is very interested in hospitals and hospital facilities. Aren't you, Rose?」
ROSE:「What?」
TURKLE:「I'll be very glad to show you around, Miss...」
Randle McMurphy:「Yeah, that's a good idea, Turkle. Why don't ya take Rose on a little tour of our facilities...」
ROSE:「Wait a minute...」
CANDY:「It's okay, Rose. You can go with him.」
ROSE:「Oh yeah! Well if ya don't mind, I'll decide on my own date!」
CANDY:「Shit, Rose! What's there to decide? There's only four of us.」

ROSE:「Whaddaya talkin' about? There's at least twenty guys in there. Let's wake 'em up and get this party on the road.」
TURKLE:「Now, Miss. What do you want with twenty zombies when you got a twenty gun salute looking you right in the face.」
ROSE:「Oh, yeah...」
TURKLE:「You better believe it, you sweet little thing. You better believe it...」
ROSE:「Don't you sweet talk me you ol' spook, you!」
TURKLE:「Oh, I'm all through talkin'. Now, let's just you an' me trip on down that hall.」
CANDY:「Go with him, Rose. Go with him.」
ROSE:「Well, okay, but I just want to look at the facilities. That's all.」
TURKLE:「That's all I'm going to show you.」
narrator:McMURPHY'S POV - TURKLE AND ROSE
 as the two of them cross out of the day room toward the hallway, Turkle suddenly turns and hurries back to McMurphy, takes the bottle of booze and hurries off clucking to himself.
 BACK TO McMURPHY and CANDY.
Randle McMurphy:「Kay, lets get under way.」

narrator:McMurphy crosses to package of booze, selects another bottle, unscrews the top and takes a long pull, then hands the bottle to Bromden.
Randle McMurphy:「Down the ol' hatch, Chief.」
narrator:Bromden takes a long pull on the bottle, gags and passes the bottle to McMurphy who crosses to the nurses' station and peeks around the corner.
 McMURPHY
 as he peeks around the corner.
 McMURPHY'S POV - TURKLE AND ROSE
 far down the hallway, as Turkle shows Rose one room, then another, and then the seclusion room, into which Turkle playfully lures Rose, who playfully resists, but finally enters. A beat passes and they don't come out.
 BACK TO McMURPHY
 Satisfied, he crosses to the nurses' station, reaches in the open side-door window, opens the door and enters.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT
 as McMurphy enters the nurses' station and looks around.
 INT. MEN'S DORM - NIGHT
 The patients are all asleep. A very long beat, then --
Randle McMurphy:「V.O.) (through loudspeaker; very low, ominous, drawn out) Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men...」

narrator:Ominous LAUGHTER, then the lights go flashing on and off.
Randle McMurphy:「V.O) (through loudspeaker) Medication time! Medication time! Rise and shine! Rise and shine! Time to say goodbye... Everybody up, up, up!」
narrator:Some of the patients immediately pop awake as Candy comes in and starts hustling the patients out of bed.
CANDY:「Up and at 'em, boys.」
BILLY:「waking up) H-H-Hi, Candy...」
CANDY:「Hi, Billy.」
narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 MUSIC OVER as the patients are queued up at the nurses' station where Candy is handing out cups full of whiskey, McMurphy backing her up, pouring the booze into the cups. Harding takes his cup and moves back into the day room as Ellis automatically downs the booze, gags and goes spinning off across the hallway and is nailed to the wall.
 QUICK CUT TO:
 DOWN THE HALL - TURKLE
 sticks his head out the door to check the scene out. Sees what's happening and comes rushing down the hallway, without his shirt, and zipping up his pants.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT
 as Turkle shoves his way to the intercom system and switches off the lights and music.

TURKLE:「furiously pushing them out) You crazy goons... shut up an' get outta here... Out! Out! Out!」
narrator:INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
 Silence as the last man is driven out of the nurses' station.
 Down the hallway, a light goes on in the visitors' room.
TURKLE:「Shit, it's the soo-per-visor come to fire my black ass.」
narrator:A KEY is HEARD hitting the lock at the end of the hallway. Without losing a beat, Turkle reverses his movement and starts pushing everybody back into the nurses' station.
TURKLE:「(pushing) Get back in there! In! In! In!」
narrator:As Turkle pushes the last man into the nurses' station, he sees Rose stick her head out of the seclusion room.
TURKLE:「(motioning and shouting) Stay in there! Stay in there!」
narrator:Rose ducks back into the seclusion room as, simultaneously, Turkle closes the door behind him to the nurses' station as the door to the ward opens and the NIGHT SUPERVISOR, a middle aged woman, enters the ward.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT
 as Turkle, shushing the crowd, makes his way to the nurses' lounge and opens the door.
TURKLE:「harsh whisper) Alla ya goons, get in here!」
narrator:The patients pile into the nurses' lounge, Turkle cramming the last one through the door and closing it. He turns and crosses to the side door and steps out.
 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
 as Turkle steps out of the nurses' station, closing the door behind him.
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「Oh, there you are, Mister Turkle.」
TURKLE:「Evenin', ma'am.」
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「Is everything all right?」
TURKLE:「blocking her way to the day room) Why, sure, ma'am...」
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「The lights were flashing on and off, Mister Turkle.」
TURKLE:「Jus' cleanin' up, ma'am.」
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「At this hour?」
TURKLE:「Cleanliness is a twenty-four-hour job, ma'am...」
narrator:Harding passes by and enters the latrine.
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「What are these men doing up wandering around?」
TURKLE:「leaning in) Ah guess the natives are restless, ma'am...」
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「getting a whiff of his breath) You've been drinking on the job again, haven't you, Mister Turkle!」
TURKLE:「Ah, no, ma'am... well, yes, ma'am... (leaning in close) A man get awful lonely at night, if ya know what Ah mean, ma'am...」

narrator:Down the hall, Rose sticks her head out the door, sees what's happening, and ducks back in as the Night Supervisor turns on her heel and starts back down the hallway, Turkle at her heels.
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「I want those men put back to bed, Mister Turkle!」
TURKLE:「Yes, ma'am...」
NIGHT SUPERVISOR:「And you haven't heard the last of this!」
TURKLE:「Yes, ma'am...」
narrator:She opens the gate, slams it behind her, crosses to the main door, opers it and exits to:
TURKLE:「(calling after her) Night, night.」
narrator:Turkle turns and the smile leaves his face as he hurries down the hallway.
 O.S. the TOILET FLUSHES as Turkle stops at the seclusion room and sticks his head in.
TURKLE:「Be right back, honey...」
narrator:Turkle closes the door, crosses down to the nurses' station, and enters as Harding comes out of the latrine.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - NIGHT
 as Turkle enters, crosses to the nurses' lounge and opens the door to see the patients, silhouetted against the open refrigerator light, moving around, pulling the room apart. It smacks of Dante's Inferno as Turkle snaps on the light and steps into the room.
 INT. NURSES' LOUNGE - NIGHT
 as Turkle steps into the room and sees the extent of the plundering. The filing cabinet is open. So is the medicine cabinet. Rolls of medical gauze are strewn around, cough syrup and orange juice are flowing.
 The patients start piling out of the room, carrying their plunder.
 Fredrickson and Sefelt are SEEN sitting on the floor, in front of the open refrigerator, looking through their dossiers.
FREDRICKSON:「Christ, they even got my first grade report card here...」
SEFELT:「Lemme see...」
narrator:Sefelt leans in, unintentionally tipping a bottle of cough syrup in his hand which goes "glug, glug, glug..." all over the papers.
SEFELT:「Jesus, they're terrible grades, Fred...」
narrator:Turkle stoically takes in the shattered remains of his job, unscrews the top to his bottle of whiskey, and takes the biggest swig of his life as, O.S., Rose is HEARD SCREAMING.
 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
 as Rose, naked as the day she was born, runs screaming down the hall, Ellis loping after her, reaching out his hand.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 as the others, who are laying out food, drinking booze and stringing up hospital gauze, turn to see Rose enter the room. She runs behind McMurphy, pressing her body to his, as he gently takes hold of Ellis' outstretched hands.
Randle McMurphy:「to Rose) Don't scream, honey...」

narrator:He gently guides Ellis to the wall, with Rose still clinging to his back.
Randle McMurphy:「Ellis ain't gonna hurt you... Ellis is nice... Nice Ellis... see the nice lady...」
narrator:He pins Ellis to the wall.
Randle McMurphy:「There, see, nice lady touch Ellis...」

narrator:Rose reaches out and touches Ellis.
 The others stand agog, looking at this Holy Trinity.
 DISSOLVE TO:
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 A SOFT NOSTALGIC NUMBER is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER as Harding, Billy and Cheswick watch McMurphy dance with Candy, Fredrickson with Sefelt and Rose, who is dressed, dance with Taber.
 Martini and Scanlon are busy draping hospital gauze around the room.
 Bromden sits by the window -- waiting.
 DISSOLVE TO:
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 Another SOFT NOSTALGIC NUMBER is HEARD OVER LOUDSPEAKER as McMurphy, Candy, Harding, Cheswick, Taber, Sefelt and Fredrickson watch Rose, on a table, doing a solo bump-and grind dance, while Martini and Scanlon race around the room in wheelchairs.
 Billy sits, watching Candy and McMurphy, who sit across the room.
 Candy is tired and bored.
 McMurphy is drunk and starting to fade.
CANDY:「It's time to hit the road, Mack...」
Randle McMurphy:「snapping at her) Don't worry 'bout the road! We'll hit the road! It'll be there when we're ready! (to the room) Ain't that right, fellas?」

narrator:He gets up and crosses to his friends.
Randle McMurphy:「I jus' want you guys to have a good time... Are ya havin' a good time? You... you... good... good... Lez have some fun...」
narrator:He turns to see Billy, who isn't having fun.
Randle McMurphy:「Whatsa matter with ya...」
narrator:Billy turns away and McMurphy crosses to him.
Randle McMurphy:「Ain'tcha havin' a good time... (no response) Whadaya want? Ya wanna drink? A cigarette...」
narrator:Billy looks up at McMurphy, his eyes are flooded with tears.
Randle McMurphy:「Whatsamatter, kid, what's botherin' you...?」
BILLY:「Ah-ah-ah-are y-y-y-you g-g-g-going t-t-t-to muh-muh-muh-marry her?」
Randle McMurphy:「Marry who?」
narrator:BILLY C-C-C-C-Candy!
Randle McMurphy:「Candy? Hell no, Billy, she's just a good friend, that's all...」

BILLY:「Wu-wu-wu I-I-I-I th-th-think sh-sh sh-she's th-th-th-the ma-ma-ma-most bu-bu-bu-beautiful wu-wu-wu-woman in th-th-the whole world!」
narrator:A long beat as McMurphy looks at Billy, then Candy, then Billy.
Randle McMurphy:「softly) Why don't ya go tell 'er...」
narrator:Billy doesn't move.
Randle McMurphy:「Go on, son, now's your chance...」
narrator:Billy slowly crosses toward Candy, stopping halfway to look back at McMurphy, who gives him an affirmative gesture. He crosses to Candy, who just looks at him.
BILLY:「C-C-Candy, wu-wu-will y-y-you mu-mu marry me!」
CANDY:「Ah, Billy...」

narrator:Candy rises, kisses Billy on the cheek, and dances with him.
 McMurphy beams on the twosome, unscrews his whiskey bottle, takes a long pull on the juice, and looks at Bromden.
 Bromden sits by the window waiting.
 DISSOLVE TO:
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 as the MUSIC ENDS. A long silence, then another NUMBER begins as McMurphy, who has nodded off, starts awake and looks around.
 McMURPHY'S POV
 Bromden sits by the window waiting.
 Cheswick is asleep on the table.
 Martini and Scanlon are sitting in their wheelchairs filling their cups from through the enema tube.
 Harding sits, maintaining his aloofness, smoking a cigarette.
 Sefelt is sitting on the floor, in a drunken stupor, while Fredrickson dances around him.
 Candy and Billy stand, locked in each other's arms, swaying to the MUSIC.
 McMURPHY
 struggles to his feet, steadies himself, crosses to the nurses' station.
 INT. NURSES' LOUNGE - NIGHT
 as McMurphy enters and goes to Turkle, who is dead asleep. McMurphy lifts Turkle's keys and leaves.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 as McMurphy crosses to Billy and Candy, and gently parting them, he puts his arms around them -- as much for support as affection.
Randle McMurphy:「Come on, you lovers, it's gettin' late...」

narrator:They move toward the hallway.
 Bromden and Harding are the only two who watch them go.
 INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT
 as McMurphy passes several doors, reaches the door of his choice, fumbles with the keys, finds the right one, and opens the door to the seclusion room.
Randle McMurphy:「standing aside) In ya go...」
BILLY:「holding back) M-M-M-Mack?」
Randle McMurphy:「It's okay, kid. Everything it going to be okay... I'll come back an' getcha in a while... 'Kay...」
narrator:Candy and Billy, hand in hand, enter the small room, which has a bed in it.
 McMurphy closes the door, looks at the keys, and pockets them. CAMERA TRACKS with McMurphy, who is a very weary man, back into the day room.
 INT. DAY ROOM - NIGHT
 MUSIC OVER LOUDSPEAKER as McMurphy crashes heavily into his chair. He can hardly keep his eyes open as he looks around.
 Harding sits nearby.
 Taber is lying on a couch, his head in Rose's lap.
 Cheswick is asleep on the table.
 Ellis stands nailed to the wall.
 Bromden sits by the window -- waiting. CAMERA HOLDS on Bromden.

Randle McMurphy:「V.O.) Hey, Harding, wake me in an hour.」
HARDING:「V.O.) Sure, Mack...」
narrator:CAMERA PUSHES INTO WINDOW. TIME LAPSE SHOT of the DAWN and SUN RISING.
WASHINGTON:「V.O.) (very far away; getting closer) Bibbit? Where's Bill Bibbit, ya damn goons?」
narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - EARLY MORNING
 as Washington jostles McMurphy awake.
WASHINGTON:「Come on, get over there!」
narrator:McMurphy allows himself to be led to the heavy security partition, by the men's dorm, where all the patients are lined up.
 It is morning and the day room is a mess:
 A few chairs turned over. Paper cups and empty bottles. Puddles of cough syrup, orange juice and apple juice worked into sticky masses.
 Rose sits by herself on the couch.
 Bromden is the last one led to the lineup, where Big Nurse waits.
BIG NURSE:「Thank you, Mister Washington! Mister McMurphy, do you know where Billy is?」
narrator:McMurphy shrugs "no."
BIG NURSE:「Mister Harding, have you seen Billy?」
narrator:Harding shrugs "no."

BIG NURSE:「Mister Sefelt...」
narrator:Big Nurse's question is cut off as all the patients and attendants turn their heads toward the hallway and start laughing. Big Nurse turns to see Turkle, without his shirt on, walk into the seclusion room and close the door behind him.
 Big Nurse turns and starts down the hallway, the laughter trailing after her when, suddenly, the laughter breaks off as Big Nurse stops and in the silence, she opens the door.
 INT. SECLUSION ROOM - EARLY MORNING
 as Big Nurse opens the door to see Candy snuggled up to Billy, who lies there, eyes closed, a smile on his face.
TURKLE:「buttoning up his shirt) Morning, Miss Ratched...」
narrator:He slides out of the room as Billy opens his eyes. A long beat as they look at each other.
BILLY:「M-M-M-M-M-M-」
narrator:Big Nurse shakes her head and exits, closing the door behind her.
 INT. HALLWAY - MORNING
 as Big Nurse heads for the day room, walking straight for McMurphy when:
BILLY:「O.S.) (shouting) M-M-M-Miss Ratched!」
narrator:Big Nurse stops and turns to see Billy, half naked, pulling his pajama pants up as he runs, stumbling toward Big Nurse.
BILLY:「(crying out as he runs) P-p-p-please du-du-don't t-t-t-tell m-m-my muh-muh-muh-mummy!」
narrator:He trips on his pajamas and falls sprawling at Big Nurse's feet, his bare ass exposed to all.
BILLY:「(blubbering as he rises) P-p-p-please du-du-du-don't t-t tell her, p-p-please...」
BIG NURSE:「You should have thought about that before you brought that woman in here!」
BILLY:「N-n-n-n-no, no, I du-du-du-didn't, I didn't!」
BIG NURSE:「I don't want your mother to believe something like this but what am I to think?」
BILLY:「Sh-sh-sh-she m-m-made m-m-me do it!」
BIG NURSE:「Billy, that girl couldn't have pulled you in there forcibly...」
BILLY:「Sh-sh-she did! Everybody did!」
BIG NURSE:「Who? Tell me!」
BILLY:「M-M-Muh-Muh-McMurphy!」
Randle McMurphy:「Ahhh, Billy...」

narrator:BILLY (caught in his own anxiety) P-p-p-please duh-duh-duh-duh t-t tell, M-M-M-Miss R-R-Ratched, y-y you don't need to!
BIG NURSE:「Get up, Billy.」
BILLY:「screaming) No! No! No!」
narrator:Billy pitches forward and collapses on the floor, screaming, pounding his fists and feet against the floor.
BILLY:「N-n-n-n-duh-duh-duh-pl-pl-pl-pl-muh muh-muh...」
BIG NURSE:「ignoring McMurphy) Mister Washington.」
Randle McMurphy:「helplessly to Billy) Hey, Billy, stop cryin'. You don't have to cry... You ain't got nothin' to be ashamed of. She ain't gonna tell you mother... stop crying...」
WASHINGTON:「Yes, Miss Ratched!」
BIG NURSE:「to Washington) Put him in Doctor Spivey's office!」
WASHINGTON:「Yes, Miss Ratched...」

narrator:Washington nods to Warren and the two of them scoop Billy off the floor and carry him screaming to Doctor Spivey's office as Big Nurse crosses into the nurses' station and picks up the phone as Candy eases her way into the day room and joins McMurphy.
 A beat, then Miller starts herding the patients toward the washroom, staying clear of McMurphy and Bromden, who don't move.
 McMurphy pulls the keys out of his pocket.
Randle McMurphy:「to Candy) Let's go!」
narrator:McMurphy checks the nurses' station, sees Big Nurse is busy on the telephone.
Randle McMurphy:「to Bromden) Let's go, Chief...」
narrator:McMurphy crosses to the window, followed by Bromden, Candy and Rose, where he begins fumbling with the lock.
 MILLER
 as he herds the patients out of the day room. He turns to see McMurphy trying to open the screen. Miller crosses to McMurphy.
 MILLER Hey, what's gone here?
 McMurphy turns around and punches Miller.
 INT. NURSES' STATION - MORNING
 as Big Nurse, still on the phone, sees Miller go sprawling across the floor. She grabs the intercom.

BIG NURSE:「V.O.) (through loudspeaker) Washington! Warren! To the day room, immediately!」
narrator:INT. DAY ROOM - MORNING
 McMurphy opens the screen, raises the window, and helps Candy and Rose out as Washington and Warren converge on them. McMurphy and Bromden wheel around.
 Washington, Warren and Miller appear around the corner, take one look, and head straight for McMurphy.
WASHINGTON:「stopping just short) 'Kay, let's have the keys an' nobody get hurt!」
narrator:Washington's words are cut off as, O.S., Nurse Pilbow SCREAMS... a bloodcurdling scream. They turn to see Nurse Pilbow enter the nurses' station, her uniform splattered with blood, hysterically talking to Big Nurse (we can't hear her).
 Big Nurse and Nurse Pilbow rush out of the nurses' station and head down the hallway.
 McMurphy is glued to the spot.
CANDY:「calling from outside) Come on, come on, let's go!」
narrator:McMurphy hesitates, then moves across the day room toward the hallway.
 INT. DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE - MORNING
 CAMERA SHOOTING TOWARD the door, crammed full of patients, who stare at the scene with curious detached looks, as Big Nurse and Nurse Pilbow force their way through the patients. The crowd parts and Big Nurse stops in the doorway, horrified at what she sees. CAMERA HOLDS on Big Nurse's reaction. A beat, then McMurphy appears alongside Big Nurse and is stricken by what he sees.
 McMURPHY AND BIG NURSE'S POV - REVERSE SHOT - DOCTOR SPIVEY'S OFFICE
 The office is splattered with blood. Billy is lying face up, hanging over Spivey's desk, dead. His throat and both wrists are cut. A broken picture frame, containing a photograph of Spivey's family, lies nearby.
Randle McMurphy:「Billy, oh, Billy boy...」
