narration:[ indistinct conversations ]
 [SCENE_BREAK]
Raylan Givens:「The airport 's a good 45 from here , but I figure you 'll be all right if you leave in the next two minutes .」
Well , correct me if I 'm wrong , my friend , but you gave me till 2:「15 , right ?」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah . Now you have two minutes .」
narration:[ sighs ]
 You know , I ... I ... I been coming here ever since I was a kid , ever since this was nothing but old Jews and old Cubans . And to tell you the truth , I love it here . I really do . I loved it then , and I love it now . So I 'm not gon na leave , so have a meal with me , okay ? You hungry ? Um , I swear , you pass up ... These are the best crab cakes in town , I swear to god , much better than that crap we were eating in Managua . Remember that ? I do n't know if that was Mexican , Puerto Rican . I do n't know what it was , but it was crap . Remember ? I hated it .

Raylan Givens:「I did n't mind it . I had some pork dish I quite liked . One minute . But a second ago , you said two minutes . What ... what 's going on here ?Time flies , huh ?」
narration:[ laughs ]
 You . You 're a character . I was telling my friends this morning how yesterday you come to me and , " if you do n't get out Of town in 24 hours , I 'm gon na shoot you on sight . " Come on . What is that ? They thought it was a joke . They started laughing .

Raylan Givens:「You tell them about the man you killed , the way you did it ? 'cause I found nothing funny in that . Then maybe I should 've killed you , huh ? Maybe I made a mistake .Well , we all have regrets . Cut me a little slack here , Okay ? Does nothing count , that I let you live ?Oh , I 'm giving you the same consideration right now . You can get up and go . 30 seconds . So , what are you gon na do ? In front of all these people , you 're gon na pull out a gun and you 're gon na shoot an unarmed man ?You 're unarmed , huh ? Hey , you got eyes . You see a piece on me ?20 seconds . Okay .10 . You know what ? Seriously , you come in , you interrupt my meal , you wo n't eat with me . This is bullshit . This is supreme bullshit .」
narration:[ gasps ]
 En route , 56 . A 240 occurred approximately 10 minutes ago . A white male , approximately 40 years old , exited apartment building at 3445 south miami avenue on foot . U.S. Attorney 's gon na have a lot of questions .

Raylan Givens:「Nothing I ca n't answer . They might think that you cornered him , did n't give him a choice .Oh , he had a choice . How 's the hat , hmm ? I was wondering if it shrunk , you know , got a little too tight , you took it off your head , and now you 're suffering from sunstroke . You do know that we 're not Allowed to shoot people on sight anymore ...I did n't . ... And have n't been for , I Do n't know , maybe years ?He pulled first . It 's not about who pulled first .」
narration:[ clears throat ]
 You remember the meth head last year , the one who pulled a shotgun ? That ended up on what , page nine ? This ... this bullshit ... this is gon na be on the nightly news . D.O.J. Inquiry number 359826 Into the shooting death of Thomas francis buckley on March 3 , 2010 , in miami , Florida . Would you like to make a statement ? the marshal 's office has Conducted an internal investigation of the proceedings that occurred at the hotel in Question on ...
Raylan Givens:「Dan . Come on , let 's just keep it Simple , huh ? He pulled first . I shot him .」
narration:[ sighs ]
Raylan Givens:「Well , I thought that went well .」

narration:You thought that went well ? I got a phone call this morning from the director . Before that , the director got a phone call from the A.G. Let me put it to you this way . The weather forecast is for a shitload of sh1 t raining down on this office from washington . I 'm gon na reassign you .
Raylan Givens:「Prison transport ? no , I 'm getting you out of Dodge . They need manpower in the Eastern district of Kentucky . I talked to the chief of the District , Art Mullen ... said you Guys taught firearms together at Glynco .No , no , dan , I grew up in Kentucky . I do n't want to go back there . Well , then , we have a problem , because you do n't want to go back to Kentucky , and you can not , under any circumstances , stay here . Got any other skills ?」
narration:[ car door closes ]
 Flight number 167 from St. Louis is now arriving at Gate number 8 . You may greet your passengers if they ...
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ]」
Art:「A bit of a comedown from the miami office , I 'd expect .」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , not with you here .」

Art:「[ laughs ] Good to see you . Well , I wo n't overwhelm you with everybody 's name right now . You want to go have a drink ?」
Raylan Givens:「Sounds good .」
Art:「Follow me , and I 'll pack up , and we 'll go . You look the same as you did at Glynco ... same coat , same boots .」
Raylan Givens:「The boots are fairly new .」
Art:「Do n't tell me that hat Is .」
Raylan Givens:「No , it 's old .」
Art:「Have a seat . You were working fugitives in Miami , huh ?」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah , I did .」
Art:「Yeah , well , here , everybody does everything ... Fugitives , witness relocation , Judicial protection , Forfeitures , prisoner transport . Boy , every office I ever worked in , prisoner transport was the sh1 t detail ... chief always used it as punishment . But here we all do it .」
Raylan Givens:「Even you ?」
Art:「No . Hell no . I heard about you and Winona .」
Raylan Givens:「From who ?」
Art:「Winona . She works here .」
Raylan Givens:「In Lexington ?」

Art:「In the courthouse ... She 's a court reporter .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , I ... I knew she was coming back to Kentucky . I think her mom took ill .」
Art:「Well , I thought that was why you picked Kentucky .」
Raylan Givens:「Art , no offense ... I did n't pick Kentucky .」
Art:「[ laughs ] Yeah , I talked to your marshal down there in miami . Tell me about the shooting .」
Raylan Givens:「It was justified . You concerned about me coming Down here ?」
Art:「It 's a small office , Raylan . I 'm concerned when we switch brands of coffee . Is your dad still down there in Harlan ?」
Raylan Givens:「Far as I know .」
Art:「Thought you were from There . Reason I ask ... the u . S. Attorney 's trying to build this case against this guy in Harlan . And he 's about the same age as You , it 's a small town , thought You might know him ... Boyd crowder .」
Raylan Givens:「My god , Art , any other sh1 t you want to dump on me tonight ?」
Art:「You do know him .」

Raylan Givens:「Yeah , I know him . Yeah , Boyd and I dug coal together when we were 19 . well , Boyd , what do you think ?」
Boyd:「Well , Jared , I think it sucks . What ? Why ?
 I appreciate the sentiment , wanting to go after a Federal building under construction . But , you see , we 'd need us a whole box of emulex to bring that down , and that 's ... that 's if you got cuts in the steel . And all we got 's a rocket launcher . And impressive as that is , the only thing it 's gon na do is knock some sh1 t around . Do n't you worry about it . We 'll just go to plan " b. " plan " b " ? oh , yeah . Yeah , there 's always a plan " b. "」

narration:[ tires screech ]
 Now , it used to be a couple of Crackers in an S.U.V. would set the jungle on edge . These surely are end times . All right , this is it right here . Let 's shoot straight up here , make a right .
 [ laughter ]
 [ indistinct conversation ]
 This is good right here .
 [ tires screech ]
 Well , I believe we can take her from here . What , you gon na blow up that Church ? Boyd ! There 's people on the streets . They 're gon na see us . They 're gon na I.D. my car .
Boyd:「You worried about your Car ? you know , I just crushed ...
 Fire in the hole ! move ! Move ! Aah !」
narration:[ breathing heavily ]
Raylan Givens:「Boyd became a powder man .」
narration:He 'd crawl down the hole with his case of emulex 520 , come out Stringing wire , call out " fire In the hole " to clear the shaft . She 'd blow , and we 'd go back in , dig out the pieces . We were n't what you 'd call buddies , but you work a deep mine with a man , you look out for each other .

Art:「Well , after that , he Joined the army , and he went to Kuwait for desert storm , and When he came back , after a Couple years , he quit paying his Taxes , claimed that he was a Sovereign citizen , and so U.S. Attorneys sent him down to Alderson . That 's where he got involved with the patriot movement and the white - supremacy bullshit , got them making horseshit bombs , you know , fertilizer and fuel oil . They 'll come into a town like Somerset , and they 'll blow up a car . And then while the cops are busy , they 'll go rob a bank .」
Raylan Givens:「Saw that in a Steve mcqueen movie .」
Art:「Yeah , well , these guys ai n't movie actors . Did he change much ?」
Raylan Givens:「Other than the fact he 's now a racist asshole .」
Art:「[ chuckles ]」
Raylan Givens:「He 's lost some hair , but that 's about it .」
narration:[ crickets chirping ]
Boyd:「How come you did n't want to blow up that church ?」
narration:I told you . I did n't want them to I.D. my car .
Boyd:「I got to thinking that maybe you had an aversion to hurting people .」

narration:[ laughs ]
 Hell no .
Boyd:「Yeah , well , I also got to thinking that a building under construction might just be the kind of innocuous target ... You know what that means ? That means harmless . Huh ?
 It might just be the kind of harmless target that the Federal bureau of imperialism might be willing to sacrifice in order to get somebody deep in the movement . You think I 'm a snitch ?
 All I know is you do n't have any tattoos , you keep rubbing that head like you do n't think that hair 's gon na grow back . You think I 'm a snitch 'cause I rub my head ?
 I mean , you understand Where I 'm coming from , right ? I mean , you come out here from Oklahoma ... No .
 ... Full of piss and vinegar , talking about how you were tired of spray - painting Synagogues , saying you want to blow some sh1 t up . Hey ! You do n't believe me , you check it out . Why do n't you call oklahoma ?
 Oh , we are . Devil 's doing it as we speak . Yeah . You 'll see , Boyd . I ai n't no snitch .
 Yeah , well , like you Said , we 'll see .」
narration:[ telephone rings ]
 Right there . Hey . Turn that sh1 t off . Why do n't you eat my ass ? Hey , how 'd it go ? Out of the way . Get over . I 'm going .
Boyd:「The primary was a waste of time , but took care of the secondary just fine . Where you at ?
 East of 75 on Tates creek road . Oh , hey . We got a call from oklahoma . Jared checks out .
 Oh ? how 'd he do ?
 [ sighs ] I had to let jared go . Oh . Was it 'cause you did n't trust him or you just did n't like him much ?
 Probably a little bit of both . I am gon na need you to pick me up , though .」
narration:[ music plays on radio ]
 I will show that my client did not engage in fraud . A report by a forensic accountant will show that any anomalies are due entirely to a misentering of amounts , a common bookkeeping error , and by no means fraud . Thank you , counselor . Will the prosecution please approach the jury ? thank you , your honor .
 [ cellphone buzzes ]
 It might seem like a simple technical mistake , but the state Will prove there was malicious intent ...
Raylan Givens:「One second . ... Coordinated with the co - defendants on January ...Sorry . I was in the courthouse . I 'll be up in a minute . Tates creek road . I think I know where that is .」

narration:[ indistinct conversation ]
Art:「County sheriff 's deputy found it just after dawn .」
narration:Name 's jared hale . Bureau has him listed as some kind of aryan knight , oklahoma driver 's license and registration .
Raylan Givens:「You got him connected to Boyd ?」
Art:「Mm , so far , tenuously . I talked to his sister in tulsa , and she said that he came to Kentucky to hook up with some commandos . Now , that 's probably the murder weapon . It 's recently been fired . There 's no prints on it . In fact , the whole vehicle 's clean , except for this . Now , do you know what that is ?」
Raylan Givens:「Mnh - mnh .」
Art:「I did n't , either . That is the cap that goes on the end of a rocket launcher .」
Raylan Givens:「No sh1 t .」
Art:「Mm - hmm . Last night in lexington , we had a church bombing . And the feeb says that whoever did it used a rocket launcher .」
narration:[ indistinct conversations ]
 We got to reroute this traffic here .

Tim:「Yeah , all the wits say the same . Two white males drove up in a dark S.U.V. They parked at that corner by the curb . One male got out with what Looked like a bazooka . He said a few words and then fired at the church .」
Raylan Givens:「What did he say , the fella that got out of the S.U.V. ?One said it was " liars and hos . " Another heard " time to go . " My favorite 's " heidi heidi heidi Ho . "Maybe we should put out an apb out on cab calloway .」
Tim:「I think he 's dead .」
Raylan Givens:「Then he should be easy to find .」
Rachel:「The pastor had it different . He heard the man say , " fire in the hole . " you know what ? Why do n't you just go just do your job ?」
Art:「Did the good pastor say he got a good look at the shooter ?」
Rachel:「He says no .」
Art:「I bet if we put Crowder in a lineup and told the pastor that the trigger man was there , it might jog his memory . Rachel , why do n't you go ask our old friend if he 'll have a word with us ? Be nice .」

Rachel:「When am I ever not nice ?」
Tim:「You think fandi 's gon na want to cooperate ?」
Art:「Fandi is Ethiopian by way of Jamaica by way of being completely full of sh1 t . The temple of the cool and beautiful J.C. was one of those Churches that claims that marijuana is a sacramental herb . It is protected by the Constitution .」
Rachel:「The constitution of dope sellers ? 'cause selling ganja to kids means you 're a drug dealer .」
Art:「I could 've sworn I told Her to be nice . Pastor fandi , if I could just talk to you for just one moment ... no , you could not .」
Raylan Givens:「I saw peter tosh once . You assume 'cause I 'm black and have a Jamaican accent , I like reggae ?People assume a lot about me . It 's the way of the world . How was he , peter tosh ?Uh ... It was not my taste , but the girl I was chasing loved him . And I let her stay till the encore before I took her off to Jail . What do you want ?」
narration:[ chuckles ]
 That was a close one . I felt the air move .
Dewey:「Boyd ! Boyd ! Boyd !」

Boyd:「What 's all the fuss ? They out of velveeta ?」
Dewey:「Your brother got shot .」
Boyd:「What ? Where ?」
Dewey:「At his house .」
Boyd:「No , dumb - ass , where on his body ?」
Dewey:「I do n't know .」
Boyd:「Well , is it serious ?」
Dewey:「Oh , yeah . He 's dead .」
Tim:「Did you know Bowman Crowder , Boyd 's brother ?」
Raylan Givens:「Sort of . Star running back in high School . Boyd was always saying Bowman Had the goods to go pro . I was never that sure .」
Tim:「You remember the girl he married , Ava ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , if it 's the Same one , she lived down the Street . She 's married to Bowman ?」
Tim:「She was . She ended the union last night with a .30 - 06 , plugged him right through the heart .」
Raylan Givens:「Hmm .」
Tim:「That 's the sheriff 's Report . She admits shooting him , says She got tired of Bowman getting drunk and beating her .」
Art:「She still in custody ?」

Tim:「She was arraigned 10 minutes ago , R.O.R.」
Art:「Mm . Did you talk to her ?」
Tim:「I did . I told her , given Boyd 's reputation , he 's probably gon na come looking for her . She said it 's none of our business . I told her it is if he shoots her .」
Art:「We should go talk to her again . Is that the address ?」
Tim:「Yeah , but good luck on finding it . I tried to map it , got nothing .」
Art:「Well , I guess some places have n't been entered into the system , like north korea and Raylan 's hometown .」
Raylan Givens:「I know where it is . And the dangerous thing about the word of faith is it puts the Believer in the driver 's seat . And it puts god and his will and his plan for your life in the back .」
Ava:「Oh , my god . Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「You remember me , huh ?」
Ava:「Oh . I never forgot you . I had a crush on you from the time I was 12 years old . I knew you liked me , but you did n't want to show it .」
Raylan Givens:「You were too young .」

Ava:「I was 16 when you left . I heard you got married . Are you still ?」
Raylan Givens:「Turned out to be a mistake .」
Ava:「Mm . Want to talk about mistakes ? I told Bowman I wanted a divorce . He goes , " you file , you 'll never be seen again . " He said I 'd disappear from the face of the earth . Do you want a drink ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'd love one . Now I 'd like to do a reading from deuteronomy .」
Ava:「I married him a year out of high school 'cause he was cute , he was sure of himself , and he told me he 'd never work in a goddamn coal mine . He 'd wear the blue and white of the university of Kentucky , and then he 'd get drafted by a pro team . He would n't mind the cowboys . What do you want in yours ? I got diet coca - cola , rc cola , Dr pepper .」
Raylan Givens:「Just ice .」

Ava:「I ever forget to fill The trays , Bowman would start slapping me . " what 's wrong with you ? Do n't you know how to keep House ? " And that all started as soon as He realized he was never getting out of Harlan . He blamed it on me , said it was My fault he had to dig coal . It was my fault that I had a miscarriage after he beat me with his belt and he did n't have a son to take hunting with him and his creepy brother , Boyd . Last time he hit me was because I called his brother creepy to his face . Well , he kept after me with that belt till I fell and I hit my head on the stove . I got up off that floor knowing that he was never gon na hit me again . The next night , he came in , I had his favorite supper on the table ... ham and yams and cream - style corn and leftover Okra fixed with tomatoes . I waited till he was shoveling food in his face . Then I got his deer rifle from the kitchen closet . And I went in there , and I did what I had to do . I just finished cleaning up . I had to scrub the wall with Lysol , you know , to get the Stain off of it . Lysol 's the best cleaning product you can buy . I still got a knot where I fell and I hit my head on the stove . You want to feel it ? Dear lord , my hair 's a mess . You close your eyes . I do n't want you to see me like this . Raylan ... the minute you walked in , I knew everything was gon na be all right . I was right about you .」
Raylan Givens:「About what ?」

Ava:「Having a crush on you . You 're a good kisser .」
Raylan Givens:「I was thinking we 'd have to stop doing that .」
Ava:「Why ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , this is n't a social call , Ava . Came down to Harlan on business .」
Ava:「Well , you tell me all about your business when I get out of the shower .」
Dewey:「Well , who the hell are you , the undertaker ?」
Raylan Givens:「I might be undertaking a situation here . Let me see your chest . You buy that necklace or poach The gator and yank her teeth Out ?」
Dewey:「I shot her and ate her Tail .」
Raylan Givens:「That would put you in Florida , around lake okeechobee .」
Dewey:「Belle glade . Who are you ?」
Raylan Givens:「Raylan givens . I 'm a deputy ... United states marshal . You mind telling me who you are ? You know your name , do n't you ?」
Dewey:「I 'm Dewey . Dewey Crowe .」

Raylan Givens:「I sent a boy to Starke from belle glade , fella named Dale Crowe Jr.」
Dewey:「He 's my kin .」
Raylan Givens:「Huh . What are you doing here , Mr. Crowe ?」
Dewey:「I come to take Ava someplace . Ava !」
Raylan Givens:「Hold on . Let me tell you something . You do n't walk into a person 's House unless you 're invited . What you better do is go on Outside , you knock on the door . Ava wants to see you , I 'll let You in . She do n't , and you can be on Your way .」
Dewey:「Well , all right . I 'm gon na go out . And then I 'm coming back in .」
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ] Mr. Crowe . You better hold on there a sec while I explain something to you .」
narration:[ sighs ]
 I want you to understand . I do n't pull my sidearm unless I 'm gon na shoot to kill . That 's its purpose , huh , to kill , so it 's how I use it . I want you to think about that before you act and it 's too late .

Dewey:「Jesus christ , I got a scattergun pointed right at you .」
Raylan Givens:「Can you rack in a load before I put a hole through you ? Where 'd you want to take Ava ?」
Dewey:「Man , I do n't understand you .」
Raylan Givens:「Boyd want to see her ?」
Dewey:「It 's none of your business .」
Raylan Givens:「You know Boyd and I were buddies ? We dug coal and drank beer together . In fact , you see him , you tell him I 'm in Harlan , all right ? Hey , if I was you , I 'd give up this nazi bullshit , go back to poaching gators ... safer .」
Dewey:「Next time I see you , I 'm gon na ...」
narration:[ horn honks ]
 [ groans ]
 [SCENE_BREAK]
Raylan Givens:「You tell Boyd his old buddy wants to see him ...」
narration:Raylan givens .
 [ sirens wailing ]
Boyd:「Only reason I do n't take Ava out and shoot her ...」

narration:'cause I see she had no choice in what she done . I mean , do n't get me wrong . I loved my brother . But you knew Bowman . You knew how he could get . And that woman , she showed some spunk ... you think about it ... Doing what she did . And then there 's the bible . In the bible , it says that a man should see to the needs of his brother 's widow , and intend to do that . Well , they sure are taking their sweet time .
Boyd:「Hey , let me ask you something . Should n't we have our money from your boys in lexington by now ? Uh , I 'll give them a call . Do n't worry . They 're good for it .
 Yeah , you damn right They 're good for it , 'cause if they ai n't good for it , I 'll go down there and blow their sh1 t up , too .」
narration:[ gunfire ]
 Whoa ! Hey ! Come on . Come on . Let 's go !
Boyd:「Right now ? Yeah , right now !
 Right now ? Right now ? come on , let 's go !
 [ laughs ] Whoo !」
narration:[ tires screech ]
 [ gunshots ]
Ava:「Who was that ?」
Raylan Givens:「Dewey Crowe .」

Ava:「Oh , the one with the " heil hitler " on his neck ?」
narration:He was one of Bowman 's buddies .
Raylan Givens:「You have n't seen Boyd , I mean , since ?」
Ava:「No . But he 'll be after me , I know . He 's been after me .」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah , that 's why we want to keep an eye on you . You know I 'm ... I 'm with the Marshal 's service .」
Ava:「I believe your mother Told me before she passed . You been to see your father ?」
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ] Mm .」
Ava:「Are you looking for Boyd ?」
Raylan Givens:「We are . But we have to catch him in the act ... robbing a bank , blowing up a church ... Making an attempt on your life .」
Ava:「Mine ?」
Raylan Givens:「You said yourself He 'll be coming after you .」
Ava:「[ chuckles ] Raylan , Boyd do n't want to shoot Me . He wants to ... You know , go to bed with me .」
narration:[ chuckles ]
 You want me to help you catch him ?

Raylan Givens:「Um , maybe you could Just get him to talk to me .」
Ava:「I could do that .」
Raylan Givens:「You know where he is ?」
Ava:「I do .」
Raylan Givens:「And did you want to tell me ?」
Ava:「[ chuckles ] What do I get if I do ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Hey . Who you know drives a town car ?
Boyd:「Look at you ... a suit , a necktie , looking good , looking Like a lawman . Hmm . Now , see , this is how you wear a hat , all casual , not down on your goddamn ears like you do . I heard you called on Ava . My boy Dewey said he had to run you off .」
Raylan Givens:「You believe that ?」
Boyd:「Not if you say it ai n't so . Yeah , I 'll take care of him .
 Devil , get us a jar and two glasses . This party 's just for Raylan and me . Go on . He just got his release , so he 's feeling a little itchy .」
Raylan Givens:「I can tell .」
Boyd:「[ chuckles ] Old times .」
Raylan Givens:「Whoa .」

Boyd:「[ laughs ] You been gone too long .」
Raylan Givens:「God damn .」
Boyd:「So , what ... what was life like in florida ?」
Raylan Givens:「Just as advertised ... Sunny and hot .」
Boyd:「You know , I just do n't think I could take me a place so flat . You seen your daddy yet ?」
Raylan Givens:「No , not yet .」
Boyd:「Boy , he was a wild man back in his day , was n't he ? What was that scam he had going back in the early ' 90s ... Stealing mining machinery , selling it to the colombians , getting paid in cocaine ... you remember that ?」
Raylan Givens:「Guess I was gone by then . How 's your daddy ?」
Boyd:「I suspect you know how my daddy is . Yeah , all those days , good and bad , they all long gone now . Everything 's changed . It 's all changed . Mining 's changed . No more following a seam Underground . Cheaper to take the tops off mountains and let the slag run down and ruin the creeks . Hey , you remember the picket Lines , do n't you ?」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah .」

Boyd:「Courts backing the Company scabs and gun thugs . Hmm . Whose side you think the Government 's always been on , Raylan , us or people with money ? And who do you think controls that money ? Who do you think wants to mongrelize the world ?」
Raylan Givens:「Who ?」
Boyd:「The Jews .」
Raylan Givens:「Boyd ... You know any Jews ?」
Boyd:「See ... I recruit skins . They do n't know no more than you Do . And I have to teach them that we have a ... a moral obligation to get rid of the Jews . See , it was in the bible .」
Raylan Givens:「W - where ?」
Boyd:「In the beginning . It 's part of creation . See , in the beginning , right , you had your mud people . Now , they were also referred to as beasts because they had no Souls . See , they were soulless . And then cain ... now , you remember cain , now ?」
Raylan Givens:「Mm - hmm .」
Boyd:「Well , cain ... he laid down with the mud people , and out of these fornications came the edomites . Now , do you know who the Edomites are ?」
Raylan Givens:「Who ?」

Boyd:「They 're the Jews , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「You 're serious ?」
Boyd:「Read your bible as interpreted by experts .」
narration:[ laughter ]
Raylan Givens:「Oh , you know , Boyd , I think you just use the bible to do whatever the hell you Like .」
Boyd:「Well , what do you think I like , Raylan ?」
narration:You like to get money and blow sh1 t up . I know about your friend devil and his record selling dope . And I 'm willing to bet that you blew up that church in lexington not because it was black , because it was a dope store . 10 to 1 says you got paid to do it by some other dope dealer around who did n't like the idea of that preacher getting a free pass from the police . Win - win for you , was n't it , Boyd ? Not only did you get to blow something to smithereens , you got money . See , I 'm giving you the benefit you are n't mental . I know you 're not stupid enough to believe that mud - people story .

Boyd:「You think you know me ? Well , I know you , Deputy marshal Raylan givens . I know you like to shoot bad People . I heard about that gun thug you shot in a hotel in miami .」
Raylan Givens:「You heard about that ?」
Boyd:「Oh , yeah , yeah , we have TV 's down here now , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「Oh .」
Boyd:「But , you know , at any point , when you were looking at that gun thug , did you see your Daddy 's face ?」
Raylan Givens:「The reason I 'm here ... we 're having a little lineup tomorrow at the Courthouse .」
Boyd:「What did I do now ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , listen , we got a witness who saw a man fire a bazooka into a church . And I 'd appreciate it if you 'd be in that lineup .」
Boyd:「Oh , I bet you would .」
Raylan Givens:「You either show up , or we 'll come get you .」
Boyd:「Hey , Raylan , let me ask you a question . Would you shoot me if you get the chance ?」

Raylan Givens:「You make me pull , I 'll put you down .」
Art:「Well , reverend , what do you think ? I do n't know . You know , it was dark , and the man was far away . And if you heard anybody , you know , shoot a rocket at you , you do n't stand there and look , you know , I just run .
 Cut them loose .」
narration:[ door opens ]
Boyd:「Well , I did my part .」
narration:I showed up .
Raylan Givens:「I think the idea of Walking in past a gathering of Law enforcement appealed to you , Especially since you knew that Preacher did n't have the balls To pick you .」
Boyd:「It 's always good to see You , Raylan . Hey . You know that man you shot in Florida ? Well , my boy Dewey 's cousin down there ... he said he heard a rumor that you gave that gun thug 24 hours to get out of town Or you 'd shoot him on sight . Is that true ?」
Raylan Givens:「I gave him the option to leave miami . He turned it down .」

Boyd:「What would you say if I made you the same offer ? Now , you get out of Harlan county by tomorrow noon , or I 'm gon na come looking for you . Does that sound fair ?」
Raylan Givens:「Now you 're talking .」
narration:[ indistinct conversations ]
Raylan Givens:「Hey .」
Ava:「Hey .」
narration:My lawyer 's talking to the Prosecutor . Come with me while I smoke . I plead to manslaughter , and I wo n't have to go to prison , though if I have to , I have to . It was worth it . Hey , why do n't you come by for supper ? I 'll pick up a couple of fryers , fix you some hot biscuits and gravy .
 [ giggles ]
 Look at you licking your lips .
Raylan Givens:「All my life , fried chicken 's been my favorite . But I should n't .」
Ava:「Why not ?」
Raylan Givens:「Because ... An officer of the law is n't supposed to be socializing with the defendant in a murder investigation .」
Ava:「Oh , I did n't know that .」
Raylan Givens:「It 's sort of frowned upon .」

Ava:「[ sighs ] Hmm . I 'm fixing it anyway . You 're a big boy , Raylan . You want to come , there 's nothing on earth gon na stop you . Oh , if it were n't for Boyd , I 'd have me some of Ava .」
Dewey:「Was n't for Boyd , me and you could have us the Marshal .」
Art:「So , what did Boyd say exactly ... " he 's coming for you " or " we 're coming " ?」
Raylan Givens:「He said he was .」
Art:「Hmm . But we do n't know whether he wants to shoot you or blow you up , do we ? Then again , he could just jump the gun and come after you when you are n't looking . If I was you , I 'd look under the car before I turned the key every time .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 We 're like big - game hunters , Raylan , except that you 're the Bait . You 're kind of like the goat tethered to the pole . And all I got to do is keep you in sight .
Raylan Givens:「You 're enjoying this , are n't you ?」
Art:「[ chuckles ]」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Boyd:「Yeah .」

narration:He 's at the motel with his friends .
Boyd:「Well , do you see our friends ? I do . What do you want us to do ?
 Sit tight .」
narration:[ knock on door ]
 Hey , Ava . You expecting someone ? hey .
 [ claps hands ]
 Give me them things .
Art:「What are they doing out there ?」
Tim:「Oh , you folks are Missing a hell of a show .」
Raylan Givens:「I think Rachel 's trying to shoot the moon .」
Rachel:「I do n't try , I do , and you weep .」
Art:「One single , solitary tear .」
narration:[ telephone ringing ]
 Now , all the information we have so far is that they ... it was a robbery , and ...
Boyd:「Hello ?」
Ava:「Can you smell the chicken frying ? It 'll be done by the time you get here .」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm on my way . Boyd 's at Ava 's .」
Art:「You sure ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm not saying there was a gun to her head , but she did n't sound right . Let 's hit it .」
Art:「Here , call Raylan . Tell him to keep the line open .」

narration:[ tires screech ]
 [ cellphone rings ]
Raylan Givens:「Where do you want me ?」
Art:「Keep going .」
narration:Get Ava . We got this .
Raylan Givens:「You got this ?」
Art:「Go !」
narration:[ tires screech ]
 You get around .
Tim:「You want me to kill them or wing them ?」
Art:「Let 's start with winging . You okay ? I got hit . Can you shoot ? I think so . Then let 's finish this thing .」
narration:[ groans ]
Rachel:「Please , either one of You , do something stupid .」
Dewey:「Hey , what are you d ...」
narration:He 'll see us . He 's already seen us , you moron . You want we should wrap ourselves around a tree ? Oh , christ almighty .
 [ horn honks ]
 What the hell 's he doing ?
Dewey:「He must be sneaking up on the house . No , he ai n't .」
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ] So , tell me . What 's going on ?」

narration:[ gun cocks ]
 I 'm sorry . I did n't hear you guys . There ai n't nothing going on , all right ? We 's just out riding around .
Both:「Aah ! aah ! Okay , all right . Boyd just wants to have a word with you is all .」
Raylan Givens:「He told me he 's gon na Shoot me .」
Dewey:「Then what are you Asking us for , asshole ? Ugh !」
Raylan Givens:「Outlaw life 's hard , Ai n't it ? Cuff your left hand , put it through the steering wheel , and cuff gator boy . Move it . Come on , give me your hand , stupid .You do n't need to say anything .」
Ava:「I swear to god , Raylan , I did n't know he was coming .」
Raylan Givens:「I believe you .」
Boyd:「Whoa . No shotguns allowed in this dining room . Toss it outside . Come on . Ava , why do n't you go in the kitchen , maybe watch some TV or something ? Go on . Well , come on in . Come on in . Sit down . Help yourself . Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ]」

Boyd:「The gravy ai n't bad ... I mean , it ai n't like your mama used to make it , but it never is , is it ? Let me ask you something . When you shot that gun thug in Miami , was there food on the table like this ?」
Raylan Givens:「There was .」
Boyd:「Well , have something . Have a little chicken . And you ... well , you had your gun . What kind was it ?」
Raylan Givens:「That time ? A sig 226 .」
Boyd:「And where was it ? Was it on the table where mine Is ?」
Raylan Givens:「It was holstered .」
Boyd:「Bullshit .」
Raylan Givens:「It was holstered .」
Boyd:「Well , where was his ?」
Raylan Givens:「Under the table .」
Boyd:「And what did he have ... What kind of piece , I mean ?」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't recall .」
Boyd:「Well , how did you know when to pull ?」
Raylan Givens:「He went first .」

Boyd:「And you gave this gun thug 24 hours to get out of town , and was the time up when you ... when you shot him ?」
Raylan Givens:「Pretty close .」
Boyd:「Well , how much time do you think you got left ?」
Raylan Givens:「I thought I had till Noon tomorrow .」
Boyd:「Well , what if I said it was right now ? I mean , unless , of course , you Want to finish that chicken leg .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , I mean , you can call it off . I mean , I do n't mind .」
Boyd:「Well , if you 're gon na keep after me , Raylan , I figure we may as well just get her done .」
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ] Your.45 's on the table , I have to pull ? Is that how we do it ?」
Boyd:「Well , I appreciate that , Raylan . Yes , I do believe it is my call . What are you packing ?」
Raylan Givens:「You 'll pay to find that out .」

Boyd:「Ooh . You got ice - cold water running through your veins . Well , should we just do us a Shot of jim beam just for old times ' sake ? Ava ! Get us a shot of jim ...」
narration:[ gun cocks ]
Ava:「You want to know what Bowman said when he looked up and he saw me with his deer rifle ?」
Boyd:「God damn , woman , you only shoot people when they 're eating supper ?」
Ava:「He had his mouth full of sweet potato .」
narration:He said , " the hell you doing with that ? "
Boyd:「Ava , put the gun down , please .」
Ava:「Want to know what I said ? I said , " I 'm gon na shoot you , dummy . " Ah !」
Boyd:「[ gasping ] Oh . Oh , you did it , huh ? You really did . You did it .
 I 'm sorry . But you called it .」
narration:[ rumbling ]
Ava:「Why 'd you say you 're sorry ?」
Raylan Givens:「Boyd and I dug coal together .」
Boyd:「[ raspy breathing ]」
Art:「[ sighs ]」

narration:At glynco , did n't you teach those recruits to aim for the heart ?
 [SCENE_BREAK]
Winona:「Toilet 's broken .」
narration:Use the one downstairs .
Gary:「Just hold up here . You leave the door open ?」
Winona:「No , I did not leave the door open .」
Gary:「Well , somebody did . It was n't me . Jesus christ !」
Raylan Givens:「Hello , Gary .」
Gary:「Raylan .」
Winona:「You almost gave him a heart attack .」
Raylan Givens:「Sorry about that .」
Winona:「Well , I told him if you were gon na shoot him , you would 've done it six years ago when I left you . What are you doing here , Raylan ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm gon na be working in Kentucky , working for the Marshal 's office .」
Winona:「Raylan . What are you doing here ?」
narration:[ sighs ]
Raylan Givens:「[ sighs ] I was in nicaragua a while back , Looking for this money launderer named roland pike .」

narration:The cartel 's gun thug , Tommy bucks , was looking for him , too . Bucks got me , took my gun , put me in a car with some other man , drove us to some old coconut plantation . Then he tied the man to a palm tree and asked me where roland was . I told him what I knew ... No sense in lying . I guess he was n't certain he could believe me and needed to be sure , or he just wanted to impress upon me how serious he was . But I watched as Tommy Bucks stuck a stick of dynamite in that poor man 's mouth , taped it so he could n't spit it out , and lit the fuse . The next time I saw Tommy Bucks was in miami . I told him he 's got 24 hours to get out of town , or I 'm gon na kill him .
Winona:「Did you ?」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah . But he pulled first , so I was justified . But what troubles me is what if he had n't ? What if he just sat there and Let the clock run out ? Would I have killed him anyway ? I know I wanted to . Guess I just never thought of myself as an angry man .」

narration:[PREVIOUSLY_ON]
 This is supreme bullshit .
 [ Gunshots ]
 You do know that we 're not allowed to shoot people on sight anymore ? I 'm gon na reassign you . Eastern district of Kentucky .
Raylan Givens:「I do n't want to go back there .」
Art:「Still got family here in Kentucky ?」
Raylan Givens:「Ex - wife here .」
Dewey:「Next time I see you , I 'm gon na ...」
narration:[ horn honks ]
Boyd:「Fire in the hole !」
narration:Aah !
Art:「How well did you know Boyd Crowder ?」
Raylan Givens:「Boyd and I dug coal together when we were 19 .」
Tim:「Did you know Boyd 's brother ? The girl he married ... Ava . She ended the union last night with a .30 - 06 .」
Ava:「I had a crush on you from the time I was 12 years old .」
Boyd:「Now , you get out of Harlan county by tomorrow noon , or I 'm gon na come looking for you .」
Raylan Givens:「Now you 're talking .」
narration:[ Rifle cocks ]
 [ Gunshot ]
 Guess I just never thought of myself as an angry man .

Winona:「Honestly , you 're the angriest man I have ever known .」
narration:[ Buzzer ]
 [ Monitor beeping ]
Raylan Givens:「Looks like it hurts .」
Boyd:「Why , yes , Raylan .」
narration:Thank you for noticing . Somebody shot me in the chest the other day .
Raylan Givens:「You getting something for the pain ?」
Boyd:「Well , I ... I can goose it as needed , but I 've been holding off . I was hoping that you 'd stop by . I wanted my mind clear and my mouth not all full of rubber when I saw you .」
Raylan Givens:「Let 's hear it .」
Boyd:「What do you think I 'm gon na say , Raylan ?」
Raylan Givens:「I would n't know .」
Boyd:「You know , if Ava had n't come in that room ... And distracted me with that rifle ... You think I could have got you first ?」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't know .」
Boyd:「Well , it do n't matter . The real question is , why did n't you kill me ? Did you miss my heart on purpose ?」

Raylan Givens:「No . I was aiming to kill . That 's the way I was taught . Sometimes you do n't hit the bull 's - eye .」
Boyd:「No , I suppose not . But , you see , I have this ... this belief , this conviction that it was n't just an accident and that ... I was wondering if the fact that we we friends , if ... if that played any part . Then last night I woke up , and . I ... I knew why you did n't kill me . I was laying here in pain ... in ... in awful pain . But I did n't hit the pump because I knew it was n't just pain from a gunshot wound . It was something deeper . It was a pain from my very soul . And I realized that , well , I could n't any more blame you for my situation here than a ... a farmer could blame his neighbor for a hailstorm .」
Raylan Givens:「A hailstorm being an act of God .」
Boyd:「That 's right , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「Me shooting you was an act of God ?」

Boyd:「Well , God was acting through you , Raylan ... through your gun ... to get my attention , to set me on a new course . Now , I know not yet what his will for me is , but I have faith . I have faith that the path will be illuminated before me as I need it to be . For even through this searing pain , I am at peace , for I am born again in the eyes of the Lord , Raylan . And I wanted to thank you for playing your part . Now , if you will excuse me , I ... I must tend to the needs of the flesh . You understand ?」
narration:[ Beeps ]
 [ Exhales deeply ]
 Raylan ? Did you come all the way out here just to see me ?
Raylan Givens:「[ scoffs ] What do you think ? Initial here , here , and here . Stand up .」
Dewey:「How come ? We 're gon na play pin - the - tail - on - the - donkey . Just stand up . Come through and stand on the feet . You got your feet on backwards ? Turn around .」
Raylan Givens:「Just checking you for visible injury . All 's I see is the nose .」
Dewey:「Which I got when he hit me with a shotgun barrel for no good reason .」

Raylan Givens:「Is that how you remember it ? You should thank him . That nose 's the only reason you got to spend two days here instead of going straight to big Sandy .」
Dewey:「Hey , careful with the teeth . You got any more Marshals in the car ?」
Raylan Givens:「Task force is undermanned ... just me . Want to put him in leg irons ?Oh , I think I can handle Mr. Crowe .」
Dewey:「Marshals drive Lincolns now ? Or is this confiscated ? Yeah , I had a town car myself one time when I was down visiting cousin Dale in Florida , till I sold it for parts and went to work at Disney . You know what I tried out for ? To play goofy ... Mickey mouse 's friend . Only you had to water - ski . I could n't get the hang of that , so they put me selling ice cream . But Disney 's got a lot of negroes and homosexuals working there , so I came back home .」
Raylan Givens:「If you 're gon na talk , I 'm gon na put you in the trunk , and I 'll drive myself .」

Dewey:「You grew up in Harlan , huh ? I grew up in Corbin . Oh , you ready for this ? My dad has never been outside of Kentucky . Whole life , never been closer to the border than Parisville , where he is now . You know , we 're gon na be ... we 're gon na be going by there . If was to , uh , get off on route 9 , we could stop by and see him . It would n't be more than a few miles out of our way . What do you say to that ? Not much , huh ?」
Raylan Givens:「Your old dad 's never crossed the state lines , but he 's been up to Manchester , has n't he ? He seen the inside of the Kentucky state prison . You got an uncle who came out of there , and another did his time in McCreary . I think we 'll skip seeing any of your kin this trip .」
Dewey:「My uncles are both dead .」
Raylan Givens:「By gunshot , huh ? You understand how I see your people ?」
narration:[ Tires screeching ]
Dewey:「[ grunts ]」
narration:[ Groaning ]
Raylan Givens:「Put one on your left wrist .」
Dewey:「[ breathing heavily ]」

Raylan Givens:「Now snap the other one to the wheel .」
narration:To the wheel , Chinatown . Let 's go .
Dewey:「I ca n't drive handcuffed to the damn steering wheel .」
Raylan Givens:「You 'll get the hang of it . Now drive .」
Dewey:「You gon na report what I did ?」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't take what you did personally , you understand ? Want to lean on you . Or wish you get any more time than you deserve . But what you 'll have to do now is ride the rap , as they say . It 's all anybody has to do . Let 's go . Come on down , fellas . All right . Next . Where the hell did they get these stupid costumes , anyway ? sh1 t .」

narration:[ Horse neighs ]
 Well , this is an embarrassment .
 [ Chuckles ]
 Piss and moan all you please , Cooper . This is what they want to see . " Hey , Martha , look . Hey 're making fun of themselves . " They eat that sh1 t up . All a part of what sells the CDs . Of which we do n't get one red cent . Now , you want out , buddy , you just say the word . We 'll be out here playing parties , eating good food , looking at pretty women . You can be back at the tiers , making yourself another chess set out of cardboard , huh , Henry ? I heard that . And if they wanted suit and ties , we 'd be wearing suit and ties . All right . Let 's head on out .
 ♪ there 's a castle on his neck ♪ ♪ hellfire in his eyes ♪ ♪ gun in his hand ♪ ♪ and his girlfriend in his sights ♪ ♪ she loved him too much to put him away ♪ ♪ well , he loved her so much ♪ ♪ that he put her in her grave ♪ ♪ when the grim reaper cut him down ♪ ♪ and drove him to the sky ♪ ♪ there was no one else around ♪ ♪ no one said goodbye ♪ ♪ just glad to see him die ♪
 [ instrumental solo ]
 [ Drum solo ]
 [ Song ends ]
 [ Scattered applause ]
 " Free Bird " !
 [ Horse neighing ]
 Hell , these horses live better than most people I know . Hey , Price , you 're not eating ? Nah , Henry . You have at it . Hey , Henry , I got to take a leak . Coop 's already in the porto - potty . Use a tree . Hell , Henry , now , that ai n't civilized . You 're back on . We 're gon na start with the cake and " happy birthday . " Price , let 's go . We got to get back out there . Oh , come on , Henry . I really got to drain it .
 [ Knocking ]
 Come on , Cooper ! Let 's go ! You walk them out . I 'll bring these two . Come on , Coop . They want to do " happy birthday " now . Coop ! Stand over there . Coop , open this door . Open this door ! Come on , Coop ! Hey , Henry , what 's this ?
 [ Cellphone ringing ]
Raylan Givens:「Hello , Art .」

Art:「Where are you ?」
Raylan Givens:「Just heading back .」
Art:「How far are you from the prison ?」
Raylan Givens:「Not far .」
narration:Just passed through , uh , Parisville .
Art:「Well , I want you to go back . They had a breakout .」
Raylan Givens:「No sh1 t .」
Art:「There was a bluegrass convict band that was playing a benefit up near Parisville , and the bass player and the drummer decided to make a run for it , so I need you to go back up to big Sandy and , you know , check their cells , see what you can find . I sent a couple of deputies up to Parisville . And get this ... the bass player was about to be released in 3 months after a 15-year stretch .」
Raylan Givens:「You got some names ?」
Art:「They could n't have gotten very far . See what you can find out .」
narration:[ Tires squealing ]
 [ Bell dings ]
 [ Dings ]
Raylan Givens:「Evening .」
narration:Evening . You , uh ... You need help with something ?
Raylan Givens:「No , I 'm just looking for some road food .」

narration:[ Shotgun cocks ]
 There 's no way in hell you 're gon na be able to draw and fire before your head comes off .
Raylan Givens:「I could get him . Fine with me . What ? Set your weapon down on the ground , please , sir . And your backup . Kick them back this way . On your belly . Hands on your neck . See , I told you ... turning the light on will get us a car . Got us some more guns , too . Give me one . Oh , no . You 're gon na run . What ? As far and as fast as you can , 'cause I swear to you , if I ever see you again , I 'll kill you . But we just busted out of the damn joint together . You got five seconds . What is this , a joke ? sh1 t !」
narration:[ Bell dings ]
 [ Shotgun cocks ]
 All right . You can sit up . Wallet , I.D. , keys ... hand them over . What are you , state police ?

Raylan Givens:「U.S. Marshal . Marshal ? Like in " Gunsmoke " ?More like " The Fugitive . " Huh . " Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan ... Givens . " I knew a fella up in Manchester named Givens ... Arlo Givens . Any relation ?I suppose there 's still some . He 's my father . No sh1 t . And here you 've become a. U.S. Marshal . How 'd that go down with him ?I would n't know . Now take your handcuffs out and cuff your hands behind your back .So , you Cooper or Price ? I 'm one of them .[ chuckles ] Fine . I 'll wait and find out tomorrow when your picture 's in the paper .」
narration:[ Chuckles ]
 My name is Michael Cooper . Glad to meet you .
Raylan Givens:「You did n't care so much for Price , huh ? Get on your feet .What was he in for ?」
narration:[ Chuckles ]
 His real crime ? Being a lousy drummer . He 's not incompetent . The man could play a paradiddle , but he 's showy , has no sense of time .

Raylan Givens:「How can you tell there 's a bad drummer at your door ? I do n't know . How ?The knock speeds up . Nice . You a musician ?No , just someone who likes music . Yeah , and shitty jokes . Come on . Let 's go .And what were you in for , Mr. Cooper ? I expect you know that already .15 years is a long time for one bank job . Well , the thing is , a fella died as a direct result . Foreseeable circumstances . But , honestly , if you hire a moron for a driver , it 's foreseeable .You taking my badge and my car to get past any roadblocks , huh ? And your hat . Good night , deputy .Good night , Mr. Cooper .」
narration:[ Door locks ]
 Well ... sh1 t .
Art:「Come in . Come in . Now , let me get this straight . He took your gun ... sorry , two guns ... your badge , your car , and your hat . He take anything else ?」
Raylan Givens:「Not that I can remember .」
Art:「He did n't rape you , did he ? We found your car at the airport , which means that Cooper either left town or he wants us to think that he left town . We found this in the trunk . That look familiar ?」

Raylan Givens:「You did n't find any guns , did you ?」
Art:「No . Sorry . The dogs chased Price into a culvert , and then Rachel talked to him . She and Tim can bring you up to speed .」
Raylan Givens:「All right .」
Art:「Uh , Raylan ... Just a second . Shut that door . I got a call this morning from AUSA David Vasquez . Wants to talk to you about your shooting Boyd Crowder .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , what 's there to talk about ? He pulled first . There was a witness .」
Art:「But , you see , 10 days ago you shot a man in Miami . Put it like this ... if you was in the first grade and you bit somebody every week , they 'd start to think of you as a biter . He also wants Ava to come up to Lexington to talk about it .」
Raylan Givens:「Fine with me .」
Art:「Which part ? The part about her talking to Vasquez or the part about her coming up to Lexington ? Raylan , you ca n't sleep with her .」
Raylan Givens:「I know .」
Art:「Raylan ...」
Raylan Givens:「I wo n't . You starting to regret me coming here ?」

Art:「Not yet .」
Rachel:「Price says the only reason why he helped Cooper escape is because Cooper promised him a lot of money .」
Tim:「This could be from his last job . He got away with $ 180,000 . Never recovered .」
Raylan Givens:「Tell me about the dead driver .」
Tim:「He was a Mensa candidate named Drew Baxter . A few hours after the robbery , Cooper and Baxter headed out of town . Baxter 's driving . They get pulled over for a traffic violation . Baxter decides to floor it . Hilarious hijinks ensue . Baxter drives head - on into a tree , goes through the windshield , and into the afterlife . And it all fell under commission , so Cooper got charged with his murder .」
Raylan Givens:「So , why is he breaking out with only three months left on his bit ? I mean , does he got a daughter getting married or a granddaughter graduating school ?」
Rachel:「No kids , and his mother and father passed .」
Tim:「He was married when he went inside ... younger woman , one - time exotic dancer , named Shirley Kelso . Did n't divorce until five years ago . Still lives in town . I thought I 'd go have a word .」
Rachel:「I 'm gon na take a team and check acquaintances .」

Raylan Givens:「I 'm gon na go with him . Nothing against acquaintances , but one - time - exotic - dancer Shirley sounds a little more fun .」
narration:[ Elevator bell dings ]
 [ Elevator door opens ]
Winona:「What the hell did you say to him ?」
narration:Rayla I 'll catch up with you at the car . Hello , Winona .
Winona:「What did you say to Gary ?」
Raylan Givens:「I believe I said , " hi , Gary . " Why ? Why did he say I said ?」
Winona:「He did n't . Just he did n't sleep the rest of that night , and the next morning , he was ill shaking . And every night since then , he checks the windows , and he checks the doors , and then he checks them again .」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't know . Winona , does Gary spook easy ?」
Winona:「What are you implying ? You would n't be startled if somebody broke into your home in the middle of the night ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm not implying anything .」
narration:[ Muttering ]
Winona:「I heard you got jumped by an old convict .」

Raylan Givens:「Oh , does 55 still seem old to you ?」
Winona:「Are you gon na shoot him if you catch him ?」
Raylan Givens:「All right , look , I wo n't show up unannounced anymore .」
Winona:「You wo n't show up at all anymore .」
Raylan Givens:「Art tells me you were a sniper with the rangers .」
Tim:「Yeah , I was .」
Raylan Givens:「What 's the longest you ever had to watch a target ?」
Tim:「Three days .」
Raylan Givens:「Three days .」
Tim:「Shitty little village outside Kandahar .」
narration:You watch a man that long , you can get to know him better than his wife does . How he reads the paper , picks his nose , what glass he likes for tea , what one for milk ... If he jerks off , what he looks at when he ... when he does ... If he 's nice to the dog when no one 's around .
Raylan Givens:「What 's the trick to something like that ?」
Tim:「Keeping your focus ?」
Raylan Givens:「Mm - hmm .」

Tim:「Well , they told us to come up with stories about ourselves and the target .」
Raylan Givens:「What do you mean , " stories " ?」
Tim:「Well , nothing elaborate . Imagine taking Shirley to the movies , watching " Price is right , " eating takeout Chinese . They eventually stopped that ... the business with the stories .」
Raylan Givens:「Why is that ?」
Tim:「They found some folks get so involved in the tales they 're telling themselves , they grow to like the target . And when they got the green light , they could n't pull .」
Raylan Givens:「That ever happen to you ?」
Tim:「Is that her ?」
Raylan Givens:「Looks like it .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 [ Knock on door ]
 U.S. Marshals . Shirley Kelso ? You think he 's here ? You 're welcome to look around . Who 's this ? They 're with the Marshals . I 'm guessing they 're looking for my ex . My cousin Dupree ... he 's staying with me till he gets on his feet in construction . Y'all want a beer or something ?

Tim:「Yeah , love one . Pabst , Schlitz , Mickey 's ...
 It was a joke . We ca n't have a beer . Well , I do n't want your job , then , do I ?」
Raylan Givens:「Either of you seen or heard from Douglas Cooper ? You mean since he broke out or since ever ?Since last night . No , and I swear to you , you give me a card or a number and he turns up , you 'll be the first person I call . Marrying him was the biggest mistake of my life .」
Tim:「You stayed married to him till , , five years ago . There were tax advantages .」
Raylan Givens:「Any idea why he 'd bust out with just a few months left on his bit ? None at all . I mean , you ask me , he 's long gone . I mean , there is nothing for him here .」
Tim:「When 's the last time you saw him ? Before the divorce , yeah .」
Raylan Givens:「What do you think ? Sure made a big deal about running down her ex - husband . Of course , that might have been for Dupree 's benefit .You do n't think they 're cousins ?」

Tim:「Maybe , maybe not . Either way , she 's banging him . That 's got to suck ... to break out of prison , expecting a blissful marital reunion . I got to think , no matter how long you 've been divorced , seeing your old lady shack up with someone else is gon na annoy the sh1 t out of you .」

narration:「[ Vehicle door closes ]
 [ Sighs ]
 If Cooper does show up , you sure as hell wo n't call the number on that Marshal 's card . Oh , yeah ? Well , Coop might not be so happy to see us , you know ? Who gives a sh1 t ? He 's the only one who knows which house to go into . It does n't matter . I hope he shows up .
 [ Shotgun cocks ]
 [ Gasps ]
 I 'm glad you feel that way . Sit down . Take a seat right there . How 'd you pick the houses ? I saw reports on the TV in prison about somebody breaking into houses in Riverbrook , tearing up the floors . Now , I know you have n't found the money yet . I knew that the minute I saw this sh1 t hole . How did you pick the houses ? You told me you hid the money in a house under construction in a development , and I just figured out it had to be Riverbrook . Picked the houses at random ? Well , you always said your lucky number was 323 , so we went for houses with 323 in the address . Oh . Y'all sleeping together ? We 're cousins ! Well , from all the lotions , condoms , and devices I saw sitting on your nightstand , it 's clear you 're sleeping with somebody . Well , it ai n't like we 're first cousins or anything . There 's no need to hide it from him . He already knows . There was one device ... kind of a vibrating thing with ball bearings going all around , making it wobble all over . That 's Randy rabbit . It 's our best seller . If I 'd known you wanted something like that , I 'd have got it for you back in the day . I was 22 when you went in . You were the first man I ever slept with . I did n't know what I wanted . Hey , we can all have a real interesting conversation later about the merits of various s*x toys , but right now , maybe we ought to focus on how we 're gon na get you out from under the eyes of that Marshal . And what 's all this " we " sh1 t ? I 'm just here to make sure you had n't already found the money . Yeah , but we can help . We got tools . We got pry bar , a sawzall . Fine . I 'll take 'em . How you gon na get out ? You know they got Marshals watching . I 'll wait till after dark , and I 'll sneak out back . Oh , you 're gon na walk to Riverbrook . I got a car . I 'll steal one . You just leave us , what 's gon na stop us from just calling the Marshal ? Good point . Maybe I 'll just kill you . I 'm not gon na kill you , and you are n't gon na call that Marshal and get sent away for all them burglaries you 've done . You know how to bypass burglar alarms ? I do . Burglar alarms that have come along in the last 15 years ? Fiber optics , net - based ? I was an alarm installer before . How do you think we got in and out of all those houses without getting caught ? All right . You 're in . All right .
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 Shirley , too . We 're a team . Fine . But you share the 10 % . Now , why do n't you run out on the porch and sit down for a spell and keep an eye on that Marshal ... Cousin Dupree ? Yeah , I 'll do that .
 [ Exhales deeply ]
 I know you must be angry , but I swear I kept my knees together for 10 years after you went in . Finally I realized I had to live . Baby , I understand that . Frankly , I 'm surprised you had n't gone after my money before now . Well , we only went after it now 'cause we had to . Folks in Riverbrook ... they 've been remodeling instead of selling 'cause of the downturn , and we just did n't want someone to stumble on it . That 's all . That was the reason , huh ? Yeah . Nothing to do with me getting out in three months .
 [ Sighs ]
 I told Dupree about it a couple months ago , and he knows alarms and all , and he just thought we should try it . You know , Dupree has ambitions , plans . For what , a chain of dildo stores ? Not just dildos .」

Ava:「[ giggles ]」
Raylan Givens:「Ava .」
Ava:「I told the manager I was your girlfriend . I 'm not being presumptuous and saying that I am . I just wanted to surprise you .」
Raylan Givens:「And you did . I ca n't sleep with you , Ava .」
Ava:「Now look who 's being presumptuous .」
Raylan Givens:「I know about the assistant attorney who wants to talk to you . I ca n't be getting amorous with a witness in a shooting I was involved in .」
Ava:「Could n't we just make out a little ?」
Raylan Givens:「No .」
Ava:「You want me to drive back to Harlan ?」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , you can stay . I could always sleep on the floor .」
Ava:「It 's your bed . I 'll take the floor . Can we just put on a little music and dance ?」
Raylan Givens:「Do you know why the Pentecostals do n't have s*x standing up ? It could lead to dancing .」
Ava:「[ chuckles ]」

narration:「[ Engine rattling ]
 You talk about cars having a new - car smell . This car has an " old car somebody died in " smell . You had a car somebody died in . You mean Baxter ? Technically , he died outside the car , when he hit the tree . No , I 'm not talking about Baxter . I 'm talking about the red car . My Lord . That ' 71 valiant . I called it the rocket . [ Chuckles ] The rocket . That 's right . He told me he got it cheap 'cause the old guy who owned it died in it and no one wants to buy a dead man 's car . And I kept joking maybe it was haunted . And then we went for a drive in the country ... you know , windows down , breathing in the night air ... and all of a sudden I hear this moaning sound , this " ooohh , " you know , like a ghost . And I about sh1 t a brick . And this one ca n't stop laughing . And then he shows me a tape recorder under the seat playing him sounding like a ghost . Can you believe that ? Y'all want to keep jawing about the old days , or y' all want stay on the money train ? What address are you looking for ? I 'm not . When I stashed the money , these houses were still being built . They did n't have addresses . Then what are you looking for ? You were onto something with my lucky number ... 323 . But it 's not in the address . Are you gon na tell us or not ? All right . The first thing they built out here was that school we passed back yonder . That was my starting point . I took the third right and the second left , and the third house on the right ... 323 ... which puts it right ... here . There 's a basement . sh1 t . Huh . No burglar alarm . Apparently I did n't need your help after all . About as much as we needed your car - stealing skills . Well , I stole one . Could have rented one faster , and it would n't have smelled like a grave . Keep it up and your 10 % is gon na be 5 % . Ha ha ha . Whatever you say , old man . You guys want to argue , or you want to find some money ? Come on , Martha Stewart . Just drop that . Here we go . Right here . I 'm coming .
 [ Whirring ]
 [ Dog barking in distance ]
 [ Whirring stops ]
 [ Exhales deeply ]
 Maybe you counted wrong . I counted right . Maybe you counted wrong 15 years ago . I did n't count wrong ... not then , not now . The only possibilities are some other folks found the money and are long gone or that school got up and moved somehow . Now , which do you think is more likely ? Let me get this straight . After all this time , you do n't have any idea where that money is ? No , I guess I do n't . Well , I guess we do n't really need you , then , after all , do we ?
 [ Gasps ]
 Come on . Let 's go . I 'm sorry . You were gone so long , and I just could n't wait . I 'm sorry . You look good , Coop . Come on ! Do you know where the money is ? Well , I do now .
 [ Dog barking in distance ]
 Where are you going ? I ai n't getting in that sh1 t heap again . We get the money , we 'll take ourselves another car . Ai n't nobody gon na stop us . Now , come on .
 [ Sighs ]
 [ Ringing ]」

Art:「Raylan ?」
Raylan Givens:「I think I know where .」
narration:Cooper 's money is .
 [ Engine turns over ]
 Come on , baby . When we get that money , I 'm gon na buy you anything you want . sh1 t .
Rachel:「Got to ask ... why the hat ?」
Raylan Givens:「Honestly , I tried it on one time , and it fit . Oh , sh1 t !」
narration:[ Tires screech ]
 [ Gunfire on TV ]
 [ Shotgun cocks ]
 You do n't do exactly as I say , you get two in the chest and one in the head !
Raylan Givens:「You boosted a gremlin ? Oh , hell , with all the alarms and stuff they got on cars these days , that 's all could get . I tried to get a Mustang .So , what happened ? They take the money and run ? No . There was n't any .Well , why 'd they shoot you ? I do n't know . I do n't care .」
narration:[ Sirens wailing ]
 I thought I broke out 'cause of the money , but then I saw Shirley . Ah .
 [ Indistinct chatter on police radio ]
Raylan Givens:「Well , maybe Dupree figured out where the money is .」

narration:Well , I do n't see how . I told him either the money was here and somebody found it and took off or that school up and moved . Yeah , I knew where the money was in relation to the school .
Rachel:「Which one ? We passed two driving around . sh1 t .」
Raylan Givens:「15 years is a long time . I told you we should n't have taken the money . You enjoyed it just as much as I did . Shut up ! How 'd you find it ? Well , Mr. " I 'm too cheap to hire a plumber " tried to put in a new dishwasher and flooded the entire place , and then we had to replace the floor . Oh , yeah , I 'm an idiot . But if it was n't for me , we never would have found the money . And we would n't be sitting here now ! Where was all your second - guessing when you got your new boobs ? You enjoyed them a hell of a lot more than I ever did ! They 're very nice . Oh , thank you . Shut up ! Now , I want what 's left of the money right now , or I start shooting . There is none . I 'll start with you . No ! No ! He 's telling the truth . A - after the boat and the car and my boobs and the TVs , it 's all gone .」

narration:[ Sighs ]
 Man .
Tim:「He 's got them tied to chairs .」
Art:「We take the back . Rachel and Raylan , you take the front .」
Raylan Givens:「You got a story for cousin Dupree ?」
Tim:「Yeah , but it 's pretty simple . If he does anything out of line , I get to shoot him .」
Raylan Givens:「That 's a good story .」
narration:[ sighs ]
 How much those shoes run you ?
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 $ 700 for a pair of shoes ? They 're alligator .
 [ Screams ]
 Oh ! Got your alligator 's attention ? Ow ! We 'll get you every last cent we have ! Just please do n't shoot anymore !
 [ Sighs ]
 Shirley , untie the woman . She might could take us to the bank . Okay . No . sh1 t . Stop . The banks ai n't open this hour . sh1 t ! Let me think .
 [ Knock on door ]
Raylan Givens:「U.S. Marshals .」
narration:I was wondering if I could come inside . No , you ca n't come inside !

Raylan Givens:「Dupree , this is n't your home . Mr. Lonner , may I come inside ? God , yes ! Come inside ! Hey , you ai n't calling the shots here .Just coming inside to explain things to you . There ai n't nothing to explain .10 seconds . Dupree , can you just keep your gun down for 10 seconds ? I can tell you both what 's what . You can see my hands . All right ?」
narration:[ Scoffs ]
 A ... all right .

Raylan Givens:「All right . You mind standing where I can see you ? Now I 'm gon na give you a choice . You wo n't like it , but it 's real simple . If you raise your gun again , you 're dead . Aim at the family , you 're dead . If you move too fast from where you 're standing , dead . In fact , I 'd say dropping your weapons and putting your hands behind your head 's the only viable option , but that 's your choice . Well , we got guns and hostages here .I see that . Do you really think you can draw and fire before one of us pulls the trigger ?Oh , this ai n't about me . This is about deputy Tim Gutterson , sniper in the Afghan war . Oh . Well , I do n't see him . You got a little sniper in your pocket ?Well , he 's out back , across the street there . He bullshitting ? Well , I ... I see cars and people . I do n't see a sniper .No , no , no , no . He 's there , or I would n't be here . Where 's the light switch for this room ?Now , Dupree , I know that was n't on the list , but ... where 's the goddamn light switch ? ! On the wall , by your friend . Shirley , find that switch .Shirley ... On the count of three , flip the switch .Shirley , do n't do it . One ... Two ... Three !」

narration:[ Gunshot ]
 [ Exhales sharply ]
Raylan Givens:「Why 'd you turn the light back on ?」
narration:He had no need to shoot my husband .
 [ Buzzer ]
 Initial here , here , and here . Going solo again ?
Raylan Givens:「Another deputy in the car . Learned your lesson ? Until I forget . Stand up , walk through . Put your feet on the feet . You know the drill .How 's the gut ? Well , they tell me my plumbing 's okay , but every which way I move hurts .I think we 're good . Did you find the money ?Couple in the house house found it . They enjoy it ?They bought a lot of stuff . Have you seen Shirley ?I have n't . I know she 's still in custody . But she helped you guys nail Dupree , right ? That ought to count for something .She 's still gon na pull some time .」
narration:[ Sighs ]
 Maybe we 'll get out about the same time .
Raylan Givens:「Maybe . Maybe .」

Ava:「Who are these people ?」
Boyd:「Raylan , who ... who 's out there ?」
Raylan Givens:「Miami gun thugs , I suspect .」
Ava:「What do they want ?」
Raylan Givens:「Me .」
Boyd:「Is my daddy moving ?」
Raylan Givens:「No .」
Boyd:「[ Groans ]」
Raylan Givens:「You did n't happen to bring your rocket launcher , did you ?」
Boyd:「I did n't think to pack one . All we want is Raylan Givens !」
Raylan Givens:「How about I come out unarmed and you come out unarmed and we talk ? The second he clears , you shoot him in the gut . Maybe we can get him to Gio before he dies . Gotcha .」
Ava:「Why do n't we all just run ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , someone 's got to keep them here for the other two to have a chance .」
Boyd:「I 'll stay , then .」
Raylan Givens:「Boyd , I 'm asking you ... Take Ava out of here . Come on .」
narration:[ Bird cawing ]

Raylan Givens:「My hands are empty .」
narration:Me too .
Raylan Givens:「Where 's your friend ?」
narration:[ Grunts ]
 [ Gunfire , bullets ricochet ]
 [ Engine turns over , revs ]
Boyd:「[ Panting ]」
Raylan Givens:「Is he dead ?」
Boyd:「Yeah , I think so .」
Raylan Givens:「Where 's Ava ?」
Boyd:「She 's running through the woods .」
narration:Where you going ?
Raylan Givens:「I 'm going after the young lady with the automatic weapon .」
Boyd:「I 'll get her .」
Raylan Givens:「What are you gon na do after you get her ?」
Boyd:「I ai n't quite figured that out yet . You gon na shoot to stop me ?」
Raylan Givens:「Maybe .」
Boyd:「I 'm pretty sure you 're empty .」
Raylan Givens:「You gon na bet your life on that ?」
Boyd:「No , Raylan , I 'm gon na bet my life on you being the only friend I have left in this world .」

narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Where 's your boyfriend ? Which one ?
 [ Gun cocks ]
 Holy sh1 t .
Pilar:「Where you headed ? C - cincy .
 Not anymore . You going to kill me ?
 Do I have to ? No .
 What 's that ?」
narration:[ Gun cocks ]
 [ Gasps ]
 Aah !
 [ Grunts ]
Raylan Givens:「Boyd !」
Boyd:「How long you been following me ?」
Raylan Givens:「Truck stop .」
narration:I 'll take it from here , all right ?
Boyd:「I believe I got it from here , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「You just gon na execute her ?」
Boyd:「I would n't call it an execution . More like retribution ... She killed my daddy .」
Raylan Givens:「Which is what you wanted to do . And besides , the gun thug behind the tree killed your daddy , and I got him .」
Boyd:「Are you gon na split hairs with me ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm just saying .」
Boyd:「Well , what 's to stop me from pulling this trigger , Raylan ? That it would be a sin ?」

Raylan Givens:「Do n't get me wrong . I have no moral objection to you killing her . You understand , miss , the life you 've led . But I need her ... alive .」
Boyd:「And if I do n't comply ?」
Pilar:「Aah ! Aah ! Boyd , nice shot . Can you get my friend to a hospital ? He 's been shot . Let 's go . - Will do .」
narration:[ Glass breaks ]
 What do you need ?
Gio:「[ Speaking Spanish ]」
narration:[ Sighs ]
 [ Speaking Spanish ]
 My God , she needs a doctor .
Raylan Givens:「She 's needed one for a while , but I do n't think these next two minutes are gon na kill her .」
Gio:「What do you want ?」
Raylan Givens:「What I did , the way I killed your man , Tommy Bucks , I understand you feel like you need to come after me . Trouble is , there are people I care about that are getting caught in the crossfire . So this ends right here , right now .」
Gio:「[ Sighs ] What would you give me in return ?」
Raylan Givens:「You leave me alone , and we will leave her alone . You have my word .」

Gio:「I need more .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , I 'd give you more , but everyone else you 've sent my way is dead . Let 's go , Gio . She needs a doctor .」
Gio:「I need guarantees about my business .」
Raylan Givens:「All right , look . I 've tried to be reasonable . You give me your word in 10 seconds , or I shoot you in the head .」
narration:[ Cellphone ringing ]
 Just ... Time - out .
 [ Telephone ringing ]
Gio:「Maybe I should ... ?」
Raylan Givens:「[ Sighs ] Just let it ring .」
narration:We ca n't get to the phone right now . Leave a message . Bye !
 [ Beeps ]
Dan:「Raylan , I 'm walking in .」

narration:Whatever you 're thinking about doing , do n't . Mr. Reyes , my name 's Dan Grant . I am the Chief Deputy of the Miami Marshals office . There 's an ambulance on the way for your niece . ' Til it gets here we 're gon na talk . The three of us , like civilized men see if we ca n't work something out , ok ? Ok , let 's talk . Not here . The kitchen then , I could use a drink . Not the kitchen . In the den ? No , and not the master bedroom , not your office ...
Gio:「This far enough ?」
Dan:「A little further . Okay . Here 's what I 'm thinking . See if this makes sense . You come after Raylan , harm him in any way , I 'll kill you myself .」
narration:[ Siren wailing in distance ]
 Go ahead . Say it .
Raylan Givens:「I thought that went well .」
Dan:「[ Chuckles ] Okay . Get 'em up .」
Raylan Givens:「So , Art called you ?」
Dan:「Yeah . You want to stay ?」
Raylan Givens:「Hmm ?」
Dan:「You want to stay ? The AUSA has long forgotten about Tommy Bucks . O'Neill 's retired . I got a slot open .」

Raylan Givens:「I did n't think you missed me .」
Dan:「Well , you know , I had a wart once , when I was a kid ...」
Raylan Givens:「Right . And when it was gone , you missed it ?」
Dan:「Yeah .」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah , I get it . Wait . Hold up . Is this your idea , or did Art suggest this ?」
Dan:「Suggest what ?」
Raylan Givens:「sh1 t . He did .」
Dan:「I owe him one .」
Raylan Givens:「What for ?」
Dan:「Well , he took you off my hands , did n't he ?」
Raylan Givens:「Dan , I went to Kentucky . I did my job , and , as far as I 'm concerned , I did it well .」
Dan:「What 's your point ?」
Raylan Givens:「My point is , this trouble I 'm in is bullshit .」
Dan:「I do n't understand .」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't know why they give us guns .」
Dan:「Raylan ... I 'm trying to offer you your old job back . I thought that 's what you wanted .」

Raylan Givens:「Right now , I just want to go home and go to bed .」
narration:♪ On this lonely road ♪ ♪ trying to make it home ♪ ♪ doing it by my lonesome ♪ ♪ pissed off , who wants some ? ♪ ♪ I 'm fighting for my soul ♪ ♪ God get at your boy ♪ ♪ you try to bogard ♪ ♪ fall back , I go hard ♪
 [ Elevator dings ]
Raylan Givens:「Disappointed ?」
Art:「Dan says the cartel 's gon na leave you alone .」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah .」
narration:Well , I 'm still gon na sit facing the door .
Art:「What about Boyd ?」
Raylan Givens:「What about him ?」
Art:「He agree to that ... Not gon na run out and avenge his daddy ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , I figured I 'd talk to him tomorrow at the hospital .」
Art:「Well , you 're a little late for that . Slipped out in the middle of the night .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , that 's good news . He must be feeling better . So ... You want to transfer me .」

Art:「Honestly , Raylan , I do n't know who would take you .」
Raylan Givens:「Everything I did , I saw no choice .」
Art:「You should have called for backup .」
Raylan Givens:「Bo said if he saw anyone but me , he 'd kill Ava .」
Art:「And so you took Boyd ?」
Raylan Givens:「It made sense at the time .」
Art:「[ Scoffs ] Well , you know what happens now , do n't ya ? We get legions of AUSAs all up in our ass . Tim ! We 're gon na do the gun thing .」
Tim:「Relinquishing a firearm can be a very emotional moment , and there always must be another deputy in attendance . Add in some premium alcohol , what could possibly go wrong ?」
Art:「Thank you .」
Raylan Givens:「Mm - hmm .」
narration:[ Sighs ]
Tim:「What are you going to get next ?」
Raylan Givens:「Probably the same thing .」
Art:「You should think about an uzi .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 How 'd your father get that bullet in his arm ... in the motel ?

Raylan Givens:「Um ... I do n't clearly recall . A lot seemed to happen at once . What did Arlo say ? Your father said you shot him by accident when the bad guys started shooting .He should know . We 're looking for the $ 20000 that the Marshal service gave to your father to give to Bo Crowder Mm - hmm . Your father said he passed it on , but we did n't find it in Crowders things . Arlo has it . You know this ? I know Arlo . What , you guys think I stole it ? Just cause I 've shot the occasional person , does n't make me a thief . Hey , Harlan man . You think you might be interested in possibly .. ? - Yes .[ Sighs ] You do n't even know what I was gon na ask . Is it gon na get me out of here ? So , who we going after ?」
Rachel:「Jimmy Earl Dean .」
Raylan Givens:「Three first names ... triple winner right off the bat .」
Rachel:「s*x offender ... statutory rape . Got his release two weeks ago . State police got a call on the tip line . Man matching his description was aggravating a teenage girl .」
Raylan Givens:「Why 'd you ask me to go with you ?」
Rachel:「I 'm not ... Comfortable with these people .」

Raylan Givens:「What people ? Perverts ?」
Rachel:「People in Harlan . Anytime I 've gone to coal country , everyone was all polite ...」
Raylan Givens:「I 'd prefer to do paperwork .」
Rachel:「... " Yes , ma'am . No , ma'am . " Trying to keep in mind it 's the 21st century and what 's expected . But when the cuffs come out ... Then I 'm a black bitch .」
narration:[ Scoffs softly ]
Raylan Givens:「So you want me to help you with my people .」
narration:You know , throw 'em a pork rind or some ding dongs ?
Rachel:「If you would n't mind .」
Raylan Givens:「No , ma'am .」
narration:[ Bird cawing ]
Jimmy:「Hey ... You ca n't take those .」
Loretta:「My daddy told you two days ago to stay away from me .」
narration:I told him about you creeping up again yesterday .
Jimmy:「You see me coming near you ? Mnh - mnh . I 'm way over here , and I 'm gon na stay over here . But you stop harvesting .」

Loretta:「Why should I ? This is my daddy 's weed and my daddy 's shed . You 're trespassing .」
Jimmy:「I do n't care whose shed it is . That 's not your weed .」
Loretta:「Not yours , either .」
Jimmy:「It belongs to the folks I work for .」
Loretta:「Oh , really ? They did n't grow it .」
Jimmy:「Grown on their land .」
Loretta:「Grown on state land .」
Jimmy:「Oh , you gon na be a lawyer now ?」
Loretta:「Is this how come you been perving on me ?」
Jimmy:「Now , how have I been perving on you ? Have I exposed myself ? Have I made any lewd or unwanted comments toward you ? No , I have not .」
Loretta:「Well , right now you 're talking to a 14-year - old girl you have no reason to be talking to .」
Jimmy:「I have a reason to be talking to you . You 're trying to steal something do n't belong to you .」
Loretta:「Hey ! I told you to stay back .」
Jimmy:「[ Chuckles ] Yes , ma'am . Okay . Wow . Where 's your mama ? Hmm ? Did she die , or did she run off ? You miss your mama ? At your age , I imagine you do . I mean , a girl your age , she needs somebody to talk to . It 's not like your daddy could do a good job of that . It 's not like you could talk to him about your period .」
Loretta:「You gon na be the one to talk to me about that ?」
Jimmy:「Well , I 'm closer in age .」
Loretta:「Not by much .」
Jimmy:「Oh , come on . I just turned 30 .」
Loretta:「Any man over 18 talking to me about my period is a pervert . sh1 t , any man period talking to me about my period .」
Jimmy:「[ Laughs ] Period ... That 's funny . You 're very funny . That 's good stuff .」
Loretta:「Is this gon na be your new line ... How we got the same sense of humor ?」

narration:[ Scoffs ]
 What 's in your mind ? How do you think this is gon na go ? You thinking , " maybe we 'll fight a little , then it 'll turn to wrestling and tickling and laughing , then she 'll say , ' ooh , do n't touch me there , ' and then she wo n't stop me " ? Is that how it runs in your head ? You do n't even know what to say now , do you ? Even me talking about wrestling and tickling and " ooh , do n't touch me there , " it 's like a spell 's been cast , and you wo n't break it . Well , maybe you 're just dreaming and you do n't wanna wake up . Well , wake up ! God damn it ! I tried nice with you ... hell I tried friendly . It ai n't worked yet . You know when people ask me why I came back here to Harlan , I tell 'em it 's cause the Bennett boys gave me a job . But honestly , that 's not it . That 's not it at all . I came back here because of you Loretta . Aah !
Walt:「He works for them ? When he came by here , he just said he was some bank man .」
Loretta:「Well , he followed me to the shed .」
Walt:「Oh , Jesus .」
Loretta:「What 's wrong ?」
Walt:「I called that tip line this morning .」
Loretta:「Oh , daddy , I told you not to do that .」
Walt:「Do n't worry . It 's anonymous .」
Loretta:「Well , I 'll go talk to Mags , she likes me . Rettie . When you talk to her , do n't say anything about us growing .
 Well , with the perv working for her , she already knows , daddy .」
narration:[ Bird cawing , dog barking in distance ]
Tom:「With our little convoy , you listen closely enough , you could have heard toilets flushing up and down this holler , everybody dumping their stash .」
Raylan Givens:「Hey , you or any of your people have any sightings of Boyd Crowder lately ?」

Tom:「No , but we 're looking for him .」
narration:State police !
Raylan Givens:「Why are you looking for him ?」
Tom:「Well , you took out Bo Crowder .」
Raylan Givens:「Miami gun thugs flipped his switch . I was just a spectator .」
Tom:「At any rate , Bo 's gone . Open up , McCready . I saw you at the window .」
Raylan Givens:「You think Boyd 's gon na try to fill his father 's shoes , take his place as the crime lord of Harlan ?」
Tom:「What 's that old saying from science class ? Nature abhors a vacuum ?」
Walt:「What ?」
Tom:「Sir , I 'm trooper Tom Bergen . These are deputy U.S. Marshals Brooks and Givens . They 're on a detail , looking for a s*x offender .」
Rachel:「Jimmy Earl Dean .」
Walt:「Well , what business is it of mine ?」
Tom:「Well , Mr. McCready , you called the state tip line .」
Walt:「The hell I did !」

Tom:「Sir , you might have thought it was an anonymous call , but it 's not . When you call , your name and your address pop up . On the recording you left , you said that a man from Rabbit Holler was bothering your daughter . The fella we 're looking for , he 's from Rabbit Holler .」
Walt:「Well , I did n't call any line or make any recording .」
Rachel:「Is your daughter home , sir ?」
Walt:「No , ma'am .」
Rachel:「But you do have a daughter who 's of the same age of the girl mentioned on the tip line .」
Walt:「Would you please leave ?」
Tom:「Sir , you change your mind , if you want to help us put away a known and dangerous s*x offender , you ... give us a call .」
Rachel:「Why so scared ?」
Tom:「Well , there 's about 10 sets of eyes that saw us roll up to his house .」
Raylan Givens:「Does James Earl Dean have a job ?」
Rachel:「He put something down on his registration . Green Mountain ATV tours .」
Tom:「Oh , sh1 t ! That 's why McCready 's so nervous . The guy who 's perving on his daughter , works for the Bennetts .」

Rachel:「Who are the Bennetts ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dickie:「Hold still , still ... Unless you want to bleed some more .」
Jimmy:「I am holding still !」
Dickie:「Well , hold stiller .」
Coover:「Anybody want some cheese ?」
Dickie:「Ho - ho - ho ! Here . Now you can stick on the band - aids yourself .」
Jimmy:「I am gon na teach them a lesson .」
Dickie:「Hey , Doyle and me , we 're gon na take care of McCready .」
Jimmy:「All right . Well , I 'm gon na take care of the girl .」
Dickie:「What ? Loretta ? What for ? Seems to me she showed craftiness and guile protecting her stash .」
Jimmy:「Well , it ai n't your face .」
Dickie:「Did I not tell you that there would be booby traps ?」
Coover:「Stop by the store , see what kinda cheese mama got .」
Dickie:「How about you spending the 10 minutes I 'm gone cleaning up this shithole ? Hmm ? Maybe get it from hideous to just plain awful .」
narration:[ Dog barking in distance ]
Dickie:「Hey , there , Walt !」
narration:You know why we 're here ?
Walt:「No .」
Doyle:「Where 's Loretta ?」
Walt:「Down at your mother 's store , getting some flour .」
Doyle:「Let 's take this inside .」
Walt:「All right . Look , Doyle , when I called that line , I did n't know he worked for you . I never would 've ...」
Doyle:「What the hell you talking about ? Called what line ?」
Walt:「Huh ? Why are you here ? Aah !」
narration:[ Groans ]
 Ow ! What the hell ? !
Doyle:「This is more Dickie 's business . I 'm just standing by , make sure you do n't do anything stupid .」
Dickie:「Whoa , whoa , whoa . You 've been planting on our land , Walt .」
Walt:「It 's state land !」
Dickie:「Oh , now , you 've been planting on our land , and any planting 's by our say - so , and you did not have our say - so .」
Walt:「I was just trying to make a living ! Sally Ann 's medical about wiped me clean .」
Doyle:「Find something else , maybe even something lawful . Hell , you could start by selling that watch .」
Walt:「It ai n't real gold ! Sally Ann gave it to me on my wedding .」
Dickie:「Walt ! You gon na come after us , hmm ? Maybe take a shot while we 're going to the car ?」
Walt:「I ai n't stupid !」
Dickie:「Well , we 're just gon na make sure .」

Walt:「Oh , c - come on , now ! Aah ! Ow !」
Dickie:「It 's okay , Walt . Wo n't break the bone . Hardly even break the skin .」
Walt:「It 's so harmless , why do n't you put your foot in it ?」
Dickie:「Come on , now , Walt . Put your foot in .」
Walt:「The hell I will !」
Doyle:「Put your foot in , Walt .」
Walt:「I - I swear I wo n't grow no more weed !」
Doyle:「Where 's that bud your Loretta took from the shed ?」
Walt:「It 's behind the stereo . I would n't lie .」
Doyle:「What were you talking about before ? Calling what line ?」
Walt:「Nothing .」
Doyle:「Put your foot in , Walt !」
Walt:「No !」
Dickie:「[ Sighs ] Put your foot in , Walt .」
Walt:「[ Whimpers ]」
narration:[ Trap snaps shut ]
 [ Screams ]
Mags:「He do anything to you ?」
narration:[ Cash register dings ]
Loretta:「I got away before he could .」
Mags:「Did you tell your daddy ?」
Loretta:「I did .」
Mags:「How is your daddy , Loretta ?」
narration:He still under the cloud from your mother 's passing ?
Loretta:「Some days .」
Mags:「Some days or most days ? He taking care of you ? Keeping a proper home ?」
Loretta:「[ Scoffs ] He sits in his chair , mostly .」
Mags:「When he 's not growing weed without my say - so .」
Loretta:「Do n't blame him . I done most of the work on that score .」
Mags:「You shoulda come to me , Loretta , straight up .」
Loretta:「[ Sighs ] We 'll work something out . As for the pervert , you do n't have to worry about him no more .」
narration:[ Bird cawing ]
 [ Train whistle blows in distance ]
Loretta:「Sir , would you think I 'm bold to inquire what you do as your job ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , which one 's the question ... What do I think , or what do I do ?」

Mags:「Loretta , do n't you know drug enforcement ?」
narration:You see a man in a suit of clothes ? They come around sniffin ' the air .
Raylan Givens:「Oh , no , no , you got us wrong . We 're marshals service . We go around smelling flowers till we get turned on to wanted felons .」
Mags:「Raylan Givens .」
Raylan Givens:「Mrs. Bennett . This is deputy Rachel Brooks .」
Mags:「Deputy . Been away so long you forgot to call me Mags .」
Raylan Givens:「Ah , I did n't want to presume .」
Mags:「Loretta , this is Raylan Givens . He used to be a big baseball player in high school . Now he 's a federal . Oh , look at poor Loretta , eyes drooping , us talking about the old days . You run along home , Loretta . Let us ancients catch up . Can I interest you in some apple pie ?」
Raylan Givens:「I remember your apple pie .」

Mags:「I make it 180 proof . Cut it with cider , some apple juice , add some cinnamon and vanilla . Reach me that glass , would you ? Coulda done with a pinch more cinnamon . Cinnamon really sells the pie .」
Raylan Givens:「As good as I remember it .」
Mags:「Would you like some , ma'am ?」
Rachel:「No , thank you .」
Raylan Givens:「How 's business , Mags ?」
Mags:「This place ? I get by .」
Raylan Givens:「And the rest ?」

Mags:「So that 's why you 're here . You go ahead and prove it . I run a store , help these poor people come up from the holler with their food stamps . When 's anybody seen me cultivate a herb ? I told you , Mags . We 're not Drug enforcement . As long as they got nothing on you , we do n't , either . I hear you got a good thousand acres , from here to west Virginia .
 What 's good about it ? You plant a third for the law , a third for the thieves . What 's left you sell to the dealers , the ones making the real profit . Used to be , marijuana was the number - one cash crop in Kentucky . Now you got all the pills , worse even than methamphetamine . I do n't have anything to do with that . I remember your granddaddy .」
narration:[ Laughs ]
 He cooked all week and preached on Sunday . Six years I came over to Harlan and sold all the liquor he cooked , and we did better than fair . How is your daddy ?
Raylan Givens:「He 's at home , far as I know .」
Mags:「I heard what happened with the Crowders . Ooh , that blew up big .」
Raylan Givens:「Have you seen Boyd ?」
narration:[ Car door opens , closes ]

Mags:「No . Why ?」
Raylan Givens:「Mm , just need a word .」
Mags:「You come here looking for Boyd Crowder ? That it ?」
Doyle:「Hey .」
narration:Hello , there , cowboy .
Raylan Givens:「Hello , Doyle . I 'm guessing this ai n't a coincidence .」
Doyle:「Well , word travels . You and your hat are famous .」
Raylan Givens:「[ Chuckles ] Doyle , this is deputy Rachel Brooks .」
Doyle:「Ma'am . So what brings you both to our town ?」
Mags:「Raylan 's looking for Boyd Crowder .」
Raylan Givens:「Actually , no .」
Rachel:「We 're looking for James Earl Dean .」
Mags:「Never trust a man with three first names .」
Raylan Givens:「Not this one , anyway .」
Doyle:「He some big federal fugitive ?」
Rachel:「He 's a s*x offender .」
Doyle:「I did n't know that was on the marshals ' purview .」
Raylan Givens:「It got added to the plate this year .」
Mags:「Why you looking for him here ?」

Raylan Givens:「Word is , he works for you .」
Mags:「You think I hire s*x offenders ?」
Rachel:「It 's not against the law .」
Raylan Givens:「Maybe your boys hired him . I mean , not Doyle , of course , but Coover or Dickie ?」
Mags:「Neither me nor my tads would do such a thing . We 're reefer farmers , Raylan . We do n't consort with sexual deviants .」
Raylan Givens:「I respect how you feel , Mags , and I know you love your tads , but we 're gon na want to talk to them , in your presence , if you 'd like . You can invite them here , or we 'll just go hunt them down .」
Mags:「You ever get to talk to them face - to - face . This might help ease the pain .
 [ Chuckles ] You sure ma'am ?」
Rachel:「I am .」
Mags:「Well , if you 'll excuse me .」
Raylan Givens:「Hmm .」
Mags:「Do n't take anything without paying for it .」
Doyle:「Mama , you really are a mean , old coot .」
narration:[ Laughs ]

Raylan Givens:「So is this your uniform ?」
Doyle:「My day off .」
Raylan Givens:「Oh .」
narration:Still driving the company car , though .
Doyle:「You think that 's a misappropriation ? You want to come back , run against me ?」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , I could never do your job .」
Doyle:「I just want to say hey .」
Raylan Givens:「You sure this guy does n't work for your clan ?」
Doyle:「I could n't tell you . I 'm not in the family business , as you know . Good to see you , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「Good to see you , too , Doyle .」
Doyle:「Ma'am . Either of you want to take anything , go ahead . Just leave a note . I 'll cover it .」
Raylan Givens:「Maybe we will . Thank you .」
narration:[ Sighs ]
 [ Car door closes , engine turns over ]
 [ Dog barking in distance ]
 [ Gunshot , clattering ]
Dickie:「Raylan Givens .」
narration:I seen you and your hat on the TV some weeks back .
Raylan Givens:「How 'd I look ?」

Dickie:「Must have been official . You were n't smiling .」
narration:[ Gunshot , clattering ]
 That 's just Coover shooting rats .
Raylan Givens:「Okay .」
Dickie:「Okay .」
Raylan Givens:「Um , I do n't know if anyone called you , we 're looking for someone in your employ , Jimmy Earl Dean . Is he here ?」
Dickie:「Was . Took off .」
Raylan Givens:「When ?」
Dickie:「Few minutes ago .」
narration:[ Gunshot , clattering ]
 For what it 's worth , I never knew he was a molester .
Raylan Givens:「Hell .」
Coover:「[ Laughs ]」
Dickie:「All that shootin ' , that 's all you got ?」
Coover:「Another one of them sumbitches in there , you want to take a try at it .」
Raylan Givens:「I shot rats as a kid . Used to chase 'em out of the sh1 t houses . All 's you have to do is go in the kitchen , huh ?」
Coover:「Where I know you ?」
Dickie:「Coover , this is Raylan Givens .」
Coover:「So ?」

Dickie:「So , he is a federal .」
Coover:「Well , you can ask me , am I growin ' reefer , and I will tell you no .」
Raylan Givens:「Coover , you throw a dead rat at my car , what are you trying to tell me ?」
Coover:「Take it any way you want , Raylan . Long as you know I 'm serious .」
Raylan Givens:「You 're telling me you 're a mean son of a bitch . You know how many wanted felons have given me this look ? I say a thousand . I know I 'm low . Something turn ugly as I put on the cuffs , they 're too late . Some others , I swear , they even try to draw down on me .」
Coover:「Dickie , you hear that ? He 's threatenin ' us .」
Dickie:「No , he ai n't .」
Coover:「He 's got a piece under his coat .」
Dickie:「And you have one in your hand , for Christ 's sake .」
Coover:「Yeah , so does the negress !」
Raylan Givens:「Rachel , if Coover raises his piece , shoot him .」
Rachel:「If you 'll move a step either way .」

Dickie:「Coover , put the gun down now . I said now , God damn it !」
narration:[ Door opens ]
Raylan Givens:「Well , if you see your friend ...」
Dickie:「Ex - employee .」
Raylan Givens:「Tell him , if he comes in on his own , it 's worth a lot .」
narration:If not , different story . It 's good to see you , Dickie .
Dickie:「You too , Raylan . You too . You and your hat .」
Jimmy:「Get up . Get up slowly , quietly , because if you wake him ... [ gun cocks ] ... I will kill him . So things have changed . I am no longer welcome here in Harlan , which means it 's time for a little road trip . Are you up for that , sweetheart ? This is where you nod . There you go . Now , you 're gon na have to ride in the trunk for a little while . Anybody sees the two of us , they might not understand our age difference . Or the tape . Get in .」
Loretta:「[ Squeals ]」
narration:[ Cellphone rings ]
Raylan Givens:「Givens .」
Tom:「Listen .」

narration:Our bolo paid off . Patrol clocked Dean on 75 , headed towards Tennessee .
Raylan Givens:「What exit ?」
Tom:「Passed 11 less than five minutes ago .」
Raylan Givens:「Any sign of the girl ?」
Tom:「Well , he did n't get too close . Did n't want to spook Mr. Dean .」
Raylan Givens:「All right . Well that 's a smart play . If she 's with him , and we should assume she is , get to a roadblock , or a strip .」
Tom:「That 's right . You want me to call in some backup ?」
Raylan Givens:「All right . We got this far being smart . Let 's not blow it now . You tell me if he comes back .」
Loretta:「[ Muffled yelling ]」
Raylan Givens:「Loretta ? You all right ?」
Loretta:「[ Grunts ]」
Raylan Givens:「You kick twice if you 're okay .」
narration:[ Two thuds ]
Raylan Givens:「All right . We 're gon na get you out of there ... one minute .」
Rachel:「He left something .」
narration:He 's on his way out .

Raylan Givens:「Loretta , right now I need you to make yourself as small as possible .」
Jimmy:「Hey ! What the hell are you doing ?」
Raylan Givens:「What 's it look like I 'm doing ?」
Jimmy:「Are you stealing gas ?」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah . sh1 t , you caught me . I 'm stealing gas . I do n't know why I do it . It 's not like I ca n't afford it .」
Jimmy:「Yeah . Whatever . Get out of here .」
Raylan Givens:「Ca n't I just have a couple gallons ?」
Jimmy:「Look , asshole . I 'm gon na tell you one more time ... What the hell ? ! Hey ! That 's it .」
Raylan Givens:「Whoa ! Okay , I 'm just gon na ask you one question . Do you know how a firearm works ?」
Jimmy:「What ?」
Raylan Givens:「The key word in firearm is " fire . " When the pin hits the cap , makes the charge explode , meaning there 's a spark , which should be of some concern to a man soaked in gasoline .」
Jimmy:「That 's bullshit . That spark 's too far away from the gasoline .」

Raylan Givens:「You did n't finish school , did you , Mr. Dean ? It 's not the liquid that burns . It 's the fumes . Now , look . Normally I would have just shot you myself the second you pulled . But I am doing my level best to avoid the paperwork and the self - recrimination that comes with it . The Lord knows , you are the kind that makes it worth it more . Come on , Jimmy . Ca n't we just try to end this without you turning yourself into the human torch ?」
Jimmy:「You know my name . Then you know what I got in that trunk . How about I just kill her ?」
Raylan Givens:「Gasoline aside , you aim that in any direction , my partner 's gon na pop you in the head . There you go . Hey .」
narration:[ Snaps fingers ]
 Slow . Slow . This might hurt .
Loretta:「[ Panting ] Would he have really gone up like a torch ?」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , I do n't know . But it sounded good .」
Mags:「I call it apple pie . Go ahead . Tell me what you think .」
Walt:「It 's good . It does taste like apple pie .」
Mags:「It does , does n't it ?」

narration:[ Chuckles ]
 Loretta okay ?
Walt:「Fine , under the circumstances .」
Mags:「Where is she at ?」
Walt:「Down the holler with a friend .」
Mags:「When the police brought her back , did they ask about your leg ?」
Walt:「They did . I told them that I was fixing the trap . When I was prying it open , my leg slipped in .」
narration:[ Both chuckle ]
Mags:「How about the gunshot wound ?」
Walt:「They did n't mention it .」
narration:Well Walt ... it 's on account of all that , that I come here ... brought this ' shine as a peace offering .
 [ Clears throat ]
 I want Dickie to apologize to you .
 [ Table thuds ]
Dickie:「Oh .」
narration:Right . Right . Um ... Walt , I should not have shot you in the leg or trapped your foot . And um ... Uh ... We could work something out about you growing .
Walt:「[ Breathing heavily ]」
Mags:「It was already in the glass , not in the jar . Why Dickie and me can drink and be okay . It 's too late now , Walt . Medicine already doing its work .」
narration:[ Clattering ]
 Even if you got on a helicopter right now , you 'd still be past care .
Walt:「Why ?」
Mags:「Why do you think ?」
Walt:「Because I called that police line ?」
Mags:「You never go outside , Walt . You know that .」
Walt:「I did n't know he worked for you ! Gaahh !」
Mags:「Oh , this is the bad part , but it does n't last long . The mixture 's all natural , from up in the hills . All kinds of knowledge in the hills . It 's something my grandmama taught me . She learned it from her grandmama .」
Walt:「[ Panting ] Loretta ...」
Mags:「I 'll raise her myself . Do n't you think that 'll be better for her ? The way it 's been around here with you and her sadness . All the troubles of your hard life , it 's all gone now . You get to know the mystery , Walt .」
Walt:「[ Whimpering ]」
Mags:「You get to see your Sally Ann again .」
Walt:「[ Wheezes ]」
Mags:「Find the girl .」
narration:[ Insects chirping ]
Raylan Givens:「Beer ?So , how 's work ?」

Winona:「Exhilarating .」
narration:What do you think ? Did you really call me here to talk to me about work ?
Raylan Givens:「Not unless it 's exhilarating .」
Winona:「[ Sighs ] I was starting to think you were never gon na call me . And do n't say you 've been busy . No one 's that busy .」
narration:[ Horn honking in distance , vehicles passing ]
 I like the ambiance .
Raylan Givens:「I pay extra for that .」
Winona:「Did I scare you off , when I said we should get together and talk ?」
Raylan Givens:「No .」
Winona:「Then why am I out here , breathing diesel ?」
Raylan Givens:「Last time you were in there , you took off your wedding ring .」
Winona:「Oh , yeah , and as I recall , you put up a hell of a fight . I mean , if you really wanted to talk , we 'd have met on neutral ground and not five feet and a flimsy door away from that lumpy bed of yours .」
Raylan Givens:「Okay . No . I invited you here because I 'm tired , and I wanted to have a word before I went to sleep .」

Winona:「So what 's keeping you ?」
Raylan Givens:「Son of a bitch !」
Winona:「Yeah , that 's what a girl wants to hear for pillow talk ... regret .」
narration:[ Cellphone ringing ]
 Oh , you 're gon na get that ?
Raylan Givens:「Givens .」
Tom:「Raylan , it 's trooper Tom Bergen .」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , hey , Tom . What 's up ?」
Tom:「Am I catching you at a bad time ?」
Raylan Givens:「No , no , no , it 's fine .」
Tom:「Okay . Well , I got a line on Boyd Crowder for you .」
Raylan Givens:「Finally surfaced , huh ?」

narration:[PREVIOUSLY_ON]
Doyle:「So what brings you both to our town ?」
Mags:「Raylan 's looking for Boyd Crowder .」
Raylan Givens:「Actually , no .」
Rachel:「We 're looking for James Earl Dean .」
Jimmy:「I came back here because of you , Loretta .」
Walt:「When he came by here , he just said he was some bank man .」
Loretta:「Well , he followed me into the shed .」
Walt:「Oh , Jesus .」
Loretta:「I 'll go talk to Mags . She likes me .」
Mags:「How is your daddy , Loretta ? He taking care of you ? Keeping a proper home ?」
Loretta:「He sits in his chair , mostly .」
Mags:「When he 's not growing weed without my say - so . As for the pervert , you do n't have to worry about him no more .」
Jimmy:「Get in .」
Loretta:「[ Squeals ]」
Mags:「Loretta okay ?」
Walt:「Fine , under the circumstances .」
Mags:「Brought this ' shine as a peace offering .」

Walt:「It does taste like apple pie .」
Mags:「It was already in the glass , not in the jar . Find the girl .」
Dickie:「[ Panting ]」
Coover:「Come on , Mary .」
Dickie:「[ Groans ]」
narration:[ Coughs ]
Coover:「Man .」
Dickie:「Whoo !」
Coover:「He ai n't been dead long enough to be stinking like that .」
narration:You think he sh1 t himself ?
Dickie:「Maybe you should check .」
Coover:「Maybe I will .」
Dickie:「Oh , boy . Yeah , get the lime . Go and get the lime .」
Coover:「No , you get it . I 'll spring the ...」
Dickie:「Hey ! Go get the lime .」
Coover:「I got the crowbar , Monkeynuts . You get it . What , are you worried that the lime 's too heavy ?」
narration:[ Chuckles ]
 Let 's go ! How deep you reckon that is ?
Dickie:「Why do n't you jump in and find out ?」
Coover:「How come we got to use the lime ? No way that stink can travel that far .」
Dickie:「'Cause mama said so .」
narration:[ Coughs ]
Coover:「That 's good .」
narration:[ Thudding ]
 [ Buzzer sounds ]
Boyd:「Step out of the hole to find Raylan Givens waiting for me .」
narration:For a second I thought I was 19 again .
Raylan Givens:「Yeah , I was just thinking . Last time I was down a dog - hole mine was Myrtle Creek , you and me running for our lives .」

narration:[ Chuckles ]
 I 'll tell you . I 'm not afraid of heights , snakes , or redheaded women , but I am afraid of that .
Boyd:「Yeah , well , not a lot of legal employment opportunity in Harlan County ... At least not for a man with my skill set . Besides , was n't it you that said I like to get money and blow sh1 t up ?」
Raylan Givens:「Buy you a drink ?」
Boyd:「[ Chuckles ] When a deputy United States marshal offers to buy a drink in a dry county , a cautious man might turn him down .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , you could always claim entrapment . But I take your point . What if I said , " Let 's drive to a puddle , and I 'll buy you a drink " ?」
Boyd:「Well , I 'd say , " Cumberland 's the closest . "」
Raylan Givens:「Okay , so ...」
Boyd:「Bartender ...」
Raylan Givens:「Just so we 're clear ...」
Boyd:「Let 's do that again .」

Raylan Givens:「Genie do n't go back in the bottle twice , anything happens to the niece , Gio goes square stir ... Is that all you wanted ? Making sure I was n't gon na throw any gasoline on the Cuban fire ?Life do n't hand out too many second chances , Boyd . I just hope you take advantage of yours .」
Boyd:「Gio and his niece got nothing to fear from me , my friend , because my outlaw ways are behind me .」
Raylan Givens:「Just you saying that scares the sh1 t out of me .」
Boyd:「God 's honest truth .」
Raylan Givens:「Hold on a second . The more you say it , the less I believe it .」
Boyd:「Believe it or not , Raylan , all I want is to do my job and to be left alone . I hope that 's not too much to ask .」

Raylan Givens:「Okay . Hold on . I 'm sorry , Art . Cumberland , having a conversation with Boyd Crowder . Art says hi . Hmm ? Oh , for ... No , no , no , no . I 'll take care of it . Maybe I can use it . Yeah . Yeah , tell him ... tell him I said I appreciate the call , and I 'll get back to him . [ Scoffs ] Believe me . I 'm thinking about it .」
Boyd:「Who 's Art ?」
Raylan Givens:「My boss .」
Boyd:「You mean the man who hit my hands with a Bible ?」
Raylan Givens:「[ Chuckles ] You remember .」
Boyd:「I 'm surprised he has n't transferred you , all the trouble you 've drawn .」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , you think I draw it ?」
Boyd:「Oh , you think you do n't ?」
Raylan Givens:「I got to go . We 're gon na continue this conversation another time .」
Boyd:「There 's nothing to continue , 'cause you 'll never believe me . Bartender ? Let 's do that one more time .」
Helen:「Deputy marshal Givens , as I live and breathe !」

Raylan Givens:「Aunt Helen .」
Helen:「You want to come in and have a slice of jam cake ?」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , that 's tempting , but ...」
Helen:「But this is n't a social call .」
Raylan Givens:「The monitoring company 's saying Arlo 's violated his tether range .」
Helen:「I would n't know anything about that . Arlo ! Arlo ! !」
Arlo:「What ? !」
Helen:「You 're violating !」
Arlo:「I 'm what ? !」
Raylan Givens:「You 're kidding . You think I got a camper in the yard ` cause I like the look ?」
Arlo:「What did you say ?」
Raylan Givens:「She said , " you 're violating . " You 're outside your tether range .」
Arlo:「I think the skin is infected . That qualifies for " cruel and unusual . "」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah , well , if you want to get it off , return the 20 grand we gave you .」
Arlo:「You gave it to me to give to Bo . How do I know what happened to it after that ?」

Raylan Givens:「Not my job .」
Arlo:「Not your money . What do you care ?」
Raylan Givens:「Get in the house .」
Helen:「He does , and I 'll shoot his other arm .」
Raylan Givens:「You told her ?」
Helen:「I could always give him a pass for what he did to Frances and me , since we both had the bad sense to choose him , but betraying his only son ?」
Arlo:「I do n't have to listen to this sh1 t .」
Raylan Givens:「Whoa . Is my money in there ?」
Arlo:「No .」
Raylan Givens:「Then that 's the wrong way . You go in there , you 're violating . I 'm gon na haul you off to jail .」
Arlo:「That 's just chickenshit , and you know it . It 's 10 feet !」
Raylan Givens:「Tell it to the judge .」
Arlo:「Fine . Take me in . Better than staying here .」
Raylan Givens:「All right . Let 's go .」
Helen:「Get in the house .」
Arlo:「Are you going to be civil with me ?」

Helen:「Get in the goddamn house !」
narration:[ Screen door opens , closes ]
Raylan Givens:「You kicked the man out of the house ?」
narration:He 's under house arrest .
 [ Sighs ]
 Find out where he stashed my money . Give me a call .
Helen:「I find out where he stashed the money , I 'm headed for Mexico .」
Raylan Givens:「Thank you !」
Helen:「Oh , and leave Mags Bennett alone !」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm sorry ?」
Helen:「I know you went by her store .」
Raylan Givens:「If I did ?」
Helen:「You 're perfectly aware of that history .」
Arlo:「What the hell you need to gyrate that for ?」
Raylan Givens:「What I went down there for concerns the here and now , nothing to do with the past .」
Helen:「That 'd be a neat trick , escaping the past .」
Arlo:「Mags Bennett is an old lady helping people with their glaucoma and stomach upset .」

Raylan Givens:「Just growing pot ... That 's her only business . Or is she someone who 's gon na try and step up , take over where Hunter and Crowder left off ? Do n't think it 's gon na be you , old man . No offense .」
Helen:「Leave her alone .」
Arlo:「Listen to your aunt .」
Helen:「Get back in the house !」
Arlo:「I hope you get cancer !」
Helen:「Already had it !」
Arlo:「I hope you get it again !」
Helen:「Move out of the house !」
narration:[ Screen door slams ]
Mags:「Ah !」
narration:Morning , honey .
Loretta:「Morning .」
Doyle:「You need anything else , mama ?」
Mags:「No . No , no . Now , you go on home now .」
narration:[ Dog barks in distance ]
 How was Doyle 's last night ?
Loretta:「He has a lovely home .」
Mags:「His boys are mighty rambunctious .」
Loretta:「Yes , ma'am .」
Mags:「And Sarah - Jean ca n't cook . You have your breakfast yet ?」
Loretta:「Yes , ma'am .」

Mags:「That 's good . Do n't want to be one of them girls starves herself to death 'cause she thinks a man wants to cuddle up next to some gristle .」
narration:[ Chuckles ]
 Thirsty ? I got some cider .
 [ Sighs ]
 I 'd say you 're a good two years away from being ready for my " apple pie . " I want to apologize for not protecting you from that pervert the way I promised . That boy 's just lucky the marshals got to him before I did . He , uh ... He really put you in the trunk ?
Loretta:「Yeah .」
Mags:「Good lord , you must have been terrified . Ooh ! All alone in the dark . Could you hear anything ?」
Loretta:「[ Sighs ] Mostly just the tires on the road and the other cars passing .」
Mags:「And before he put you in the trunk , he say anything to you then ?」
Loretta:「Just some of the things he was gon na do to me .」
Mags:「Yeah , they 'll take care of him in prison . Even the lowliest criminals do n't look kindly on child molesters . I bet you wonder why you had to stay at Daws last night , and where your daddy is . Yeah . It 's on the kind of the shooting my boys gave him and trapping his foot . When I heard out about that , I was devastated . So , I decided to make it up to your father , and I sent him down south for a few weeks , handle some business for us . Pays a lot more than tending that little patch . Of course , with the feds sniffing around , we had to spirit him away under cover of night . So he could n't even wait for you to come home .」
narration:[ Sighs ]
 Oh , you want a little more ?
Loretta:「Okay .」
Mags:「I never had a girl . Just those damn boys . I 'm looking forward to our time together , Loretta .」
narration:♪ On this lonely road ♪ ♪ trying to make it home ♪ ♪ doing it by my lonesome ♪ ♪ pissed off , who wants some ? ♪ ♪ I 'm fighting for my soul ♪ ♪ God get at your boy ♪ ♪ you try to bogard ♪ ♪ fall back , I go hard ♪
 What are you doing ?
Winona:「Brown suit , black suit , one , two , three , four shirts , two pairs of jeans . Hmm .」
Raylan Givens:「What the hell 's that supposed to mean ?」

Winona:「Oh , just by looking at your closet , one would think you were a simple man .」
Raylan Givens:「[ Inhales deeply ] Okay . I 'm gon na go get some coffee . You want some ?」
Winona:「Oh , perfect .」
Raylan Givens:「Perfect what , Winona ?」
Winona:「You . You 're running away .」
Raylan Givens:「I just offered to go get some coffee . How 's that running away ?」
Winona:「I just made a simple observation .」
Raylan Givens:「No , you did n't . You tried to start a fight .」
Winona:「Okay . Raylan ?」
Raylan Givens:「Hmm ?」
Winona:「Are you staying in Kentucky ?」
Raylan Givens:「They offered me my job back in Miami , and I 'm here . What does that tell you ?」
Winona:「Well , you 're also still at a place that puts a piece of paper over the toilet . So what does that tell me ?」
Raylan Givens:「That it 's sanitized for your protection .」
Winona:「I know how much you make , Raylan . Come on .」

Raylan Givens:「I 'm sorry ?」
Winona:「You can at least rent an apartment .」
Raylan Givens:「Maybe I should buy a house .」
Winona:「Oh , that 's ... Okay .」
Raylan Givens:「No , I know the name of a very good realtor .」
Winona:「You 're an asshole .」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm sorry . Okay . I 'm sorry . You want to converse , we 'll converse . You want to fight , we 'll fight . It 's not easy , by any stretch .」
Winona:「Sometimes I look at you , and I never want to see you again .」
Raylan Givens:「Other times ?」
Winona:「There are no other times . Just that . Raylan ... Other times I want to run away with you to Costa Rica .」
Raylan Givens:「Costa Rica ?」
Winona:「Mm - hmm . Hmm . Hmm . I ca n't be late .」
Raylan Givens:「Fine . But ... I 'm gon na need that shirt .」
Winona:「I hate smelling you on me all day .」

Raylan Givens:「Should 've taken another shower . You were the one who went for the victory lap .」
Gary:「Well , hello , Raylan ! Winona .」
Raylan Givens:「Gary .」
Gary:「You know , I always forget your office is in this building . You two run into each other on the elevator a lot ? I guess you must .」
Winona:「Not as much as you might think .」
Raylan Givens:「My schedule 's not very regular .」
Gary:「Hey , hold on just a minute . Listen , Raylan . I was thinking , you know , maybe we should get together for a drink .」
Raylan Givens:「Why ? Why would we do that ?」
Gary:「Well , we have something in common . We both been kicked to the curb by this one over here , you know ?」
narration:[ Chuckles ]
 Feels like it 'd only be right for us to get together , tell some tales . You know , how O.C.D. she is , how loud she snores .
Winona:「Gary , what are you doing here ?」
Raylan Givens:「Good to see you both .」

Gary:「Good seeing you , Raylan . Hey , uh , I just want to let you know I 'm planning to show the house again tonight .」
Winona:「Well , that 's fine , but you could have told me that over the phone . You know , I misplaced my cellphone can you believe that ? Anyway I 'll see you tonight . Okay . Boy you smelled nice . Raylan , this is n't a punishment detail . Jimmy burglar needs a transport , you need an assignment . You do n't think you can handle it ? Oh , you wanna do it ? By yourself ? Hey , maybe get another reward . Raylan 's not going by himself . Oh and by the way , you might wanna bring some plastic and towels for the backseat , in case everything goes south . Just the two of you ? I had an instructor at Glynco say that two Marshals should be enough to transport King Kong . Well , I was just sayin . Let it go . We know what you 're sayin . I need you to initial here ... and ... Mm - hmm . Well , I guess you 've done this before . Once or twice . Miss Burglin . I 'm Deputy Marshal Gutterson , this is Deputy Marshal Givens . - Hello . Now they 've told you no leg irons right ? Yeah we read the new guidelines . We going to the Doctor or Rodeo ? Goodness great .」
Raylan Givens:「You all right ?」

Jamie:「I 'm not contracting . Do n't worry . I 've got a hemorrhoid the size of a golf ball . How are you ?」
Tim:「Well , long as you do n't give birth during the ride , we 're fine .」
Jamie:「Look at you boys , all nervous . You gon na ask ?」
Tim:「Ask what ?」
Jamie:「How I got pregnant .」
Tim:「I do n't remember much from health class , but I do remember that and what untreated venereal disease looks like .」
Jamie:「[ Chuckles ] When I was at Marysville , I had conjugal with my husband .」
Tim:「Is he taking custody of the baby ?」
Jamie:「Who , A.J. ? A.J. ca n't take care of himself .」
Tim:「Well , it 's got to be better than foster care .」
Jamie:「Hey , hey , do n't knock foster care . Look where it got me .」
narration:[ Door closes ]
Jamie:「Hey , Alisha . How are you , girl ?」
Alisha:「Good morning , Ms. Berglund .」
Jamie:「Good morning .」
Tim:「I 'm assuming you know the drill .」
Alisha:「Yes , sir , we handle all the ultrasounds for FMC inmates .」
Raylan Givens:「You get a lot of pregnant women inside ?」

Alisha:「Not too many .」
narration:If you 'd bring Ms. Berglund to exam room one , there should be a gown in there for her to put on .
Tim:「Window in exam room one ?」
Alisha:「No , sir .」
Tim:「All right .」
Jamie:「You 're afraid of ...」
Raylan Givens:「Do you know the gentleman who 's in your waiting room ?」
Alisha:「His wife has a dating scan scheduled for ... 11」
Raylan Givens:「And where is she ?」
Alisha:「Running late .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jess:「You fellas cops ? I could n't help but notice the young lady you came in with was all chained up . Figured if she was your wife , she would n't take too kindly to that .」
Raylan Givens:「Did you find out ?」
Jess:「What 's that ?」
Raylan Givens:「Boy or girl ?」
Jess:「It 's a boy .」
Raylan Givens:「This your first ?」
Jess:「How could you tell ?」
Raylan Givens:「You seem a bit jumpy , you do n't mind me saying .」

Jess:「Do n't mind you saying at all . But honestly , I 'm not scared . 15 years old , I let a coal train run over me . I was gon na dodge it , but then I decided to lay down between the rails . 60 miles an hour , 80 cars , all about an inch from the tip of my nose . During that whole time I not once blinked my eyes . See , once you face down a coal train , facing a loaded gun just does n't have the same effect .」
Alisha:「Deputy !」
Jess:「Do n't try it , partner . I 'll gut - shoot you both before you clear that holster .」
narration:[ Whistles ]
 Nice touch making the appointment . Thank you kindly there Marshal . I guess this ai n't my first rodeo . Sweetheart , why do n't you stand up here next to the marshals ? And , gentlemen , why do n't you take out your sidearms ? You put yours on the ground , yours right there on the counter . And then cuff yourselves . Anybody makes a move , you shoot her first . What 's the holdup there , fellas ?
Raylan Givens:「Well , I 've never had to cuff myself .」

Jess:「[ Sighs ] Fine . I 'll do it . You do the cowboy 's , and I 'll take care of you .」
Jamie:「I 'm sorry about this , boys . I hope you understand .」
Raylan Givens:「[ Scoffs ] You sure this is the way you want to go out ?」
Jamie:「I 'm sure my baby should n't have to ride my rap .」
Art:「Gotten anything , gentlemen ?」
Tim:「A.J. Logan . That 's the husband and baby daddy .」
Raylan Givens:「Not either of the guys that was at the clinic .」
Art:「Well , we 'll bring him in , anyway . What about this guy ?」
Tim:「We have a winner .」
Raylan Givens:「That 's the one who pulled .」
Art:「Jess Timmons . We got him off that print that we pulled off the cuff . Good job .」
Tim:「Actually , that was Raylan 's play .」
Art:「Jess Timmons is a Louisville hard case . Two falls . Last bit was a two - year stint at Northpoint . Manslaughter . Paroled June of ' 07 .」
Tim:「Well , who leaked her appointment time ?」

Art:「The ultrasound techs generally do n't know the schedule , but we 're going after the ...」
Raylan Givens:「Wait a minute . What about a leak at the prison ?」
Art:「Yeah , warden thinks he runs a tight enough ship that he keeps everything in - house .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , sure , if the schedule got out , prisoner could have confederates set up an ambush .」
Art:「[ Chuckles ] We 're pushing back , believe me . So what happened ? You did n't suspect a thing ? Too distracted by that big , old belly ?」
Raylan Givens:「Art , she played the sh1 t out of us .」
narration:[ Insects chirping ]
 Oh , boy ! Now , that 's a spark to the right !
Jess:「I thought I told you to stay away from that window .」
Jamie:「Yeah , and I thought you said he 'd be here by now .」
Jess:「Well , he 's coming , all right ? He 's just waiting till the coast is clear . Those marshals are out beating the bushes right now . He would n't want to lead them to us .」
Jamie:「We make the news yet ?」
Jess:「No , not yet .」
Jamie:「[ Sighs ]」

narration:[ Indistinct talking on television ]
Jess:「What 's that ?」
Van:「It 's Clonidine .」
narration:[ Clears throat ]
 It helps your body tolerate the anesthesia . Plus , it should relax you .
Jamie:「How long were you an EMT for ?」
Van:「Seven years . School for that ? Here is the training program , it 's not like med school or anything . Give me a hand here .」
Jamie:「You get a lot of pregnancy calls ?」
Van:「All the time . Third most popular , behind drunks and psych patients .」
Jamie:「You ever have one where they could n't make it to the hospital , had to deliver in the ambulance ?」
Van:「Few times .」
Jamie:「[ Sighs ] Did they make it ? Survive , I mean ? [ Voice breaking ] Mothers and babies ?」
Van:「Listen . You do n't got nothing to worry about . In a little while , I 'll start the propofol . Hour after that , your baby 's out .」
Jess:「Yeah , and an hour after that , your baby 's daddy is gon na be taking that little girl to her new life .」
Jamie:「Oh , not that fast he do n't . In prison , you get to hold her for maybe a couple of hours , and then she 's gone .」
Van:「That 's got to be rough .」
Jamie:「He can have her when I am good and ready .」
Jess:「Hey , hey , hey . There 's no hurry . You take all the time you like .」
Jamie:「Ah , jeez , I got to pee again . Excuse me .」
narration:[ Sighs ]
Tim:「A.J. , it 's real simple .」
narration:You tell us where your friend Jess Timmons is and where your wife Jamies is and life gets way better for you than if you do n't .
A.J.:「Who the hell is Jess Timmons ?」
Tim:「It seems I did n't make it simple enough .」
Raylan Givens:「It 's understandable . You want to break out your wife 'cause they wo n't let you have the baby .」

A.J.:「Baby ?」
Tim:「What ... You just gon na deny everything ?」
A.J.:「Now , hold on . Serious ... seriously , Jamie 's pregnant ?」
Raylan Givens:「Come on , A.J.」
Do not waste ... A.J.:「No , no , no , no . Come on . I have n't seen her since she left Marysville . You should know . There 's no conjugals in the federal system .」
Tim:「She 's 37 weeks . That puts the time of conception around the time of your last conjugal .」
A.J.:「No , we did n't do anything on my last visit . No she said she if was going Federal and could n't have conjugals there 'd be no point of us staying together .」
Raylan Givens:「You did n't do it one last time , just to say goodbye ?」
A.J.:「No , I wanted to , but she said that would just make things sadder .」
Art:「Could be a regular visitor that knocked her up . Would n't be the first time that a couple went at it in a corner of the regular visitors ' room .」
Raylan Givens:「That 's bullshit , Art , and you know it .」

Art:「Hell , it could be A.J. himself for all we know .」
Tim:「Chief ...」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , my gosh .」
Art:「[ Chuckles ] Hmm . We do n't know that it 's a guard .」
Tim:「If it is a guard ... and I say that to keep you happy ... maybe he hired Jess Timmons to make the grab because he knew Timmons from inside .」
Raylan Givens:「We make a list of all the guards from here and Marysville , and we find out which ones were at Northpoint when Timmons was doing his bit .」
Jess:「He 's coming . Do n't worry .」
Jamie:「I ai n't worried .」
Jess:「Well , you were before .」
Jamie:「Yeah , well , that was before I was wasted .」
narration:This stuff works . You know , I never did anything in the inside . You could get it , but I just figured , you know , the baby . You ever been to California ?
Jess:「Why you ask that ?」
Jamie:「I was just thinking about where I 'd go once baby 's off to her new life . I never been to California .」

Jess:「Yeah , well , it 's nice , long as you stay out there near the ocean . You get a little further inland , then you got to worry about all the desert and the wetbacks .」
Jamie:「You know what ? I do n't care where I go , so long as I know baby 's gon na have a good life .」
Van:「We 're all set . If you want to step into my office here , we 'll get the I.V. started and have you snoring in no time .」
Jamie:「I 'm gon na go pee one more time .」
narration:[ Chuckles ]
 Oh , my God ! My legs feel like rubber . You know , if I was n't about to go through childbirth , I 'd really be enjoying this buzz . You gon na kill her , are n't you ? Why you gon na ask me that ?
 [ Insects chirping ]
Jamie:「[ Exhales sharply ]」
narration:[ Chain clanging ]
 [ Grunts ]
Jess:「Looks like you could use a hand there , honey .」
Jamie:「Oh , my ...」
Jess:「Come here ! Come here !」
Jamie:「Son of a ...」
Jess:「Change of plans .」
narration:Now that she 's tied down , we cut it out .
Jamie:「Oh , my God , no ! Please !」
Van:「I - I have n't started the propofol yet .」
Jess:「Oh , yeah ? Well , she gave that up when she went out the window .」
Jamie:「Oh , my God , please !」
Van:「I ca n't do it without the anesthesia .」
Jess:「If you do n't , I will .」
Van:「I mean , you can ... you can , Jesse , but she 'll probably die of shock . So ? If she dies before the baby 's out , the baby goes with her .」
Jess:「What about all those stories you hear , huh ? About how some batshit - crazy diesel dyke cuts out her best friend 's baby and raises it as her own ?」
Van:「The news shows never show the stories where the babies die . Now , believe me . I 've been on 20 runs like that when I was driving the bus . I got to do the propofol .」
Jess:「How long 's that take ?」
Van:「I got it .」
Jamie:「[ Crying ]」
Jess:「Shut up .」
Jamie:「[ Crying ]」
Jess:「Shut up .」
Raylan Givens:「Mr. Cosgrove ? You remember us from this morning ?」

Glenn:「Of course . Yeah , no , we all ... We all heard what happened . But I mean , like , what did happen ?」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , couple hard cases got tipped off about the appointment . They were just set up for us .」
Glenn:「You know where that tip came from ?」
Tim:「We 're running it down .」
Raylan Givens:「How you doing ?」
Gayle:「I 'm good . How are you ?」
Glenn:「Honey , these are the two marshals . Remember that thing on the news I was telling you about ?」
Gayle:「Yeah . Hi . Hi .」
Raylan Givens:「Glenn , maybe Mrs. Cosgrove wants to go back in the house ?」
Gayle:「Why would I go inside ?」
Glenn:「Yeah , why ... why ... why does she need to go inside ?」
Gayle:「Why would I need to go inside ?」
Raylan Givens:「Are you sure you want her here for this ?」
Gayle:「Here for what ? Glenn , what 's going on ?」
Glenn:「I have no idea . Let 's ...」
Tim:「Mr. Cosgrove .」

Glenn:「Take your hands off me , man .」
Tim:「We know about Jess Timmons . We know he was at Northpoint when you were there .」
Glenn:「Who ?」
Tim:「How long do you think it 'll be before we find him ?」
Raylan Givens:「You think he 's gon na stand up for you , just go down with the ship ? I see you believe that I know what you 're talking about , but I ... What about Jamie , you really did n't think she was n't gon na tell anybody ? Tell anybody what ? You wanna answer that , or should I ? I ca n't answer that , ` cause I have no idea what you 're talking about . - Ok . Mrs Cosgrove , the ... inmate who escaped today , was eight months pregnant , your husband was the father . Are you crazy ? What ? They hired a convict that he knew from Northwood , to help her escape . Come on , you think my husband knocked up some inmate ... and , and , and helped her escape , and then what , he 's gon na leave me , his job ... Everything here ... No . We 're not certain he 's gon na leave you . No we do n't think he 's gon na run off . We think he 's gon na have her killed . That 's the only way he can be certain that it does n't come back to him . - What ? You assholes are gon na hang out to dry for this . I 'm gon na get my union rep . That ca n't be true , that ca n't be . Tell them , you tell them that it 's not true . Well of course it 's not true . Man we have over 20 calls between you and Jess Timmons last week alone . Oh my God . Honey , honey I need you ... This is n't ... You think I ca n't tell when you 're lying . I am not lying . You could still do yourself a favor here . If there 's a chance Jamie 's still alive , you can help us get to her . 'Cause otherwise , it 's contract murder . Spend the next few years of your life looking at a wall and then get strapped to a gurney and have potassium chloride injected in your arm .」

Gayle:「Glenn , if this is true , you tell them how to find that girl .」
Glenn:「Gayle , please .」
Gayle:「Tell them right now ! Tell them ! !」
narration:[ Tires screech ]
 Thing is , I had 10 grand , and Jess said it was n't enough for the risk he was taking . He had a solution , though . He 'd heard there 's people that 'd pay 50 grand for a healthy white baby .
Raylan Givens:「Glenn , we got it . You ... you knocked up an inmate , you hired someone to murder her and sell your child . Now shut the hell up , or Tim 's gon na hit you in the face .」

Van:「Will you give me those alcohol swabs and the Betadine packets ? You should have told me the plan was to kill her . I figured if I told you , you probably would n't have come along . I would n't have . See ? There you go . It 's just , taking the baby is one thing ... but ... Look at it this way . If you were n't here , she 'd still be dying , and I 'd still be cutting that baby out myself . Probably killing it in the process . See , that 's just like throwing money in the trash . See , this way , you get that baby out in one piece , you get paid . Do n't seem near as wasteful now , does it ? It 's like when the plains Indians used to kill all those buffalo . They made sure they used every single part of that thing . It was a sign of respect for the life they were taking .
 Will you grab me that gauze from over there ? I want to be ready in case I hit a gusher .」
Jess:「Thataboy . I ai n't seeing the gauze over here .」
Van:「Look to your left , on the counter .」
Jess:「Telling you , if it 's over here , I do n't see ... Hey !」
Van:「Aah !」
Jamie:「[ Whimpering ]」
narration:[ Knock on door ]
Raylan Givens:「U.S. marshals ! Drop your weapon !」

Tim:「It 's all clear .」
Jess:「[ Breathing heavily ]」
Raylan Givens:「Behind the table , drop your weapon .」
Jess:「Oh , hey , there , fellas .」
Raylan Givens:「Show me your hands .」
narration:Was n't really expecting to see you boys again . Show me your hands . Or what ? Huh , I got a gun on her belly , finger on the trigger . You shoot me , you 're gon na be spending the rest of the night cleaning up baby guts all over that fireplace there . Jess . Yeah . Jess you ever hear of a spot snipers call , The Apricot ? It 's where the brain stem meets the spine . Hit a fellow there . He ai n't gon na pull no trigger . It 's just ... Lights out . Oh , are you telling me you 're that good ? Me ? [ Shakes head ] Really This how it 's ... Show me your hands . Come on , I got you . Come on , It 's ok . It 's ok .
 [ Dog barking in distance ]
 [ Insects chirping ]
Ava:「How did that happen ?」
Boyd:「Honestly , Ava , I do n't have any idea .」
Ava:「Go take a seat .」
narration:Go on .

Boyd:「[ Moans ]」
Ava:「Okay , take this . Go on . Clean yourself up . We 'll pretend like this never happened . It happens again , though , and I will put you back in whatever gutter you just pulled yourself out of .」
Boyd:「Yeah .」
Gayle:「Deputy Givens .」
Raylan Givens:「Mrs. Cosgrove .」
Gayle:「I was hoping I 'd find you .」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah , I ca n't discuss your husband 's case .」
Gayle:「I know . Glenn 's not evil . Or I guess maybe he is . You 're married to someone for 11 years , you think you know them , what they 're capable of . We tried for years to start a family . It turns out that I 'm ... I 'm ... I 'm not able . So ...」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah . Let me ... let me see if I can find someone for you to talk to .」
Gayle:「No , no , no . I 'm ... I 'm just ... What 's the girl 's name ?」

Raylan Givens:「Again , I ... I ca n't . Oh , do you know what she 's uh , planning to do with the baby ? Oh , I do n't think she has much say in it .」
Gayle:「Do you think maybe ... I mean , I do n't know how this works , but ... I was kind of hoping that maybe , um ...」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't know how that works , either ... But maybe I could find out for you .」
narration:[ Insects chirping ]
 [ Footsteps approaching ]
Raylan Givens:「Gary .」
narration:That 's not a real safe way to approach an armed man .
Gary:「[ Chuckling ] Oh , I guess you 're right !」
Raylan Givens:「Uh - huh . Something I can do for you ?」

Gary:「Oh , no , no , no . No , I mean , you 've already done more for me than I could ever hope to repay , which is why I felt like I needed to tell you face - to - face . I 'm gon na get her back . Now , I know you think I 'm no competition 'cause I ca n't outshoot you or outfight you or [ chuckling ] probably outscrew you . But if there is one thing I do know , Raylan , it 's selling . I can get a guy to buy a house worse than the one he 's in , cost him twice as much , and have him swear it was his idea .」
Raylan Givens:「[ Chuckles ] Yeah , you thought a lot about this moment , huh ? You say everything you meant to say ?」
Gary:「Yeah , pretty much . She left you for me once , Raylan .」
Winona:「Who were you talking to ?」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , it was nobody . What ?」
Winona:「Nothing . How was your day ?」
Raylan Givens:「Long .」
Winona:「You want to tell me about it ?」

Raylan Givens:「You remember ... you remember I always liked the name Jess for a boy ? I 'm over that . I told you . Easy ... I was never a big fan of your list .」
Winona:「What 's wrong with my list ?」
Raylan Givens:「Cody ?」
Winona:「Yeah .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , that 's the moment I knew our marriage was doomed .」
Winona:「You 're really not gon na tell me about your day , are you ?」
Raylan Givens:「You do n't want to know .」
Winona:「Reason I asked is 'cause I do want to know .」
Raylan Givens:「Okay . I saw a man threaten to shoot a pregnant woman through the belly , just before a bullet went through his brain . So I guess you could say it was n't good .」
Winona:「I can handle that , Raylan . I ca n't handle silence .」
Raylan Givens:「[ Sighs ] All right .」
Winona:「So , who were you talking to outside ?」
Raylan Givens:「That was your husband .」

Dewey:「Bourbon ! You can keep the ice . Hey , Boyd . You mind ?」
Boyd:「Not at all , Dewey Crowe .」
Dewey:「Kind of surprised to see you in here . I thought you 'd given up these poisons .」
Boyd:「Well , I had . But many things have changed since last we spoke .」
Dewey:「You mean when yon pointed your gun at me ?」
Boyd:「Well , the irony in that is that without me pointing my gun at you , you would n't be alive today .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dewey:「There 's 25 ... 35 ...」
narration:5 ... 10 ... There 's a couple pennies . It 's currency , ai n't it ? What ? Dewey Crowe . How you doin this fine afternoon ? I 'm good Ellen Mae , and you ? I do n't know , you tell me .
Dewey:「Yeah , I 'm afraid I - I got nothing for you right at this second , but I 'll be back real soon , and I 'm gon na be flush .」
Ellen May:「You ever get it together , you know where to find me .」
Boyd:「I 'd be more than happy to contribute to the cause , if you 'd like .」
Dewey:「I do n't need your charity , Boyd . I got things lined up .」
Boyd:「Whatever puts a smile on your face , Dewey Crowe .」
Dewey:「You know , Boyd , for a guy who 's supposedly changed , you sound an awful lot like you always did .」
narration:[ Instruments tuning ]
Raylan Givens:「What are we doing , Winona ?」

Winona:「What are we ...」
Raylan Givens:「What are we doing ?」
Winona:「We 're having some beers , and we 're waiting for Dave Alvin to come on .」
Raylan Givens:「At a roadhouse 50 miles outside of Lexington ?」
Winona:「Was he playing somewhere else tonight ?」
Raylan Givens:「No , that 's not my point .」
Winona:「What is your point ?」
Raylan Givens:「If he was playing in Lexington , would we go see him ?」
narration:No . No , 'cause we drive to the middle of nowhere anytime we want to be seen in public . We lie to everyone we know .
Winona:「I thought we were being discreet .」
Raylan Givens:「Which I understood when Gary did n't know about us .」
Winona:「Well , just because Gary knows about us does n't mean the whole world needs to know about us .」
Raylan Givens:「I do n't see why .」
Winona:「'Cause I 'm still married , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「What if you were n't ? Ladies and gentlemen , Dave Alvin .」
Winona:「Well , that 's a longer conversation .」

narration:[ Cheers and applause ]
Dave:「Hey , how y' all doing tonight ?」
narration:[ Mid - tempo music plays ]
Raylan Givens:「Are you not divorcing Gary ?」
Winona:「Can we talk about this some ...」
Raylan Givens:「Because if you are n't , then I really do n't know what the hell we 're doing .」
Winona:「All right , maybe I would n't be so hesitant to tell the world and divorce Gary if I thought you and I could be actually happy together .」
Dave:「♪ Another city waitin ' up ahead ♪」
Raylan Givens:「I ca n't believe you said that .」
Winona:「I 'm sorry . It 's just ... I - I wanted tonight to be fun .」
narration:This was supposed to be ... fun . Tim 's here . What ? Tim , your fellow Marshal is at the bar .
Dave:「♪ 'Cause I always want to live without regrets ♪」
Raylan Givens:「Let 's invite him over .」
Winona:「We should take off .」
Raylan Givens:「Are you serious ?」
Winona:「You can not be serious . Did you hear a word I just said ?」

Raylan Givens:「You said you wanted to have fun . Let 's have fun . Come on . Dave Alvin .」
Winona:「Either give me your keys or come with me .」
Dave:「♪ trying to get by ... ♪」
Raylan Givens:「Okay .」
Dave:「♪ ... and tired of being alone ♪ ♪ for a moment , I thought she was mine ♪ ♪ 'cause she had a voice I just wanted to believe ♪ ♪ she said her mother was full - blooded Cherokee ♪ ♪ and her daddy was a union man down in the mines ♪ ♪ fightin ' the good fight ' cross the Harlan County line ♪」
narration:What are we stoppin ' for ? Bridge is out , what do you want me to do ? Get back to your seat . Oh , come on Bobby I got ta drain it . Hold it . I 've been holding it . You piss out the window if you want . But you ai n't gettin ' off this bus . You want me to back it up ? Where you goin' ... sh1 t You all stay down and be quiet ! Pick him up . Man I got a bad back . Lift up your legs .

Cutter:「You want to grab the junk , or were you thinking we 'd stay a little while ? Hoo - hoo ! Looks like Christmas come early . I do n't want to be hearing about this !」
narration:♪ On this lonely road ♪ ♪ trying to make it home ♪ ♪ doing it by my lonesome ♪ ♪ pissed off , who wants some ? ♪ ♪ I 'm fighting for my soul ♪ ♪ God get at your boy ♪ ♪ you try to bogard ♪ ♪ fall back , I go hard ♪ ♪ on this lonely road ♪ ♪ trying to make it home ♪ ♪ doing it by my lonesome ♪ ♪ pissed off , who wants some ? ♪ ♪ I see them long , hard times to come ♪
Art:「Well , I thought you both might want to know , AUSA has determined that the shooting of Jess Timmons was good .」
Raylan Givens:「No surprise there .」
Art:「Hell of a shot . Did you consider what might have happened if you 'd missed ? Ca n't carry a tune . I do n't know how to shoot a basket ball , and my handwriting is barely legible . But I do n't miss .
 All right , that 'll do it . Raylan ?」

Raylan Givens:「Hmm ?」
Art:「Stay a minute , would you ?」
narration:[ Clears throat ]
 Do I need to be concerned ?
Raylan Givens:「About what ? Oh , sh1 t . He saw us ? Listen . It 's not what it looked like . It was just two people having some beers , seeing some music .」
Art:「Is that right ?」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah .」
Art:「Raylan , what are you talking about ?」
Raylan Givens:「What are you talking about ?」
Art:「I 'm asking if I need to be concerned about Tim , 'cause he just shot a man , and you 've shot men . And he 's a little off . And you 're always a little off . And so I 'm just asking .」
Raylan Givens:「If there 's something eating at him , I have n't noticed .」
Art:「Okay .」
Raylan Givens:「Okay .」
Art:「You 're not getting off the hook that easy , though . Two people , out having beers , seeing music .」
Raylan Givens:「Let 's just forget it .」
Art:「So , you were out with somebody , and Tim happened to be there .」

Raylan Givens:「Could we not ? Just ...」
Art:「Suppose it could be Rachel . Are you sleeping with Rachel ?」
Raylan Givens:「No .」
Art:「I do n't guess Ava 's looking to spend time with you . And I think I would remember if it was me .」
Raylan Givens:「You done ?」
Art:「Unless , of course , you roofied me . Did you roofie me , Raylan ?」
Raylan Givens:「Goodbye , Art .」
Art:「[ Laughs ] Wait . Wait . I 've got one more thing to talk to you about . Walk with me . I got a call this morning from a trooper down in Harlan , Tom Bergen .」
Raylan Givens:「Yeah . Helped us out with that Jimmy Earl Dean deal .」
Art:「One of his troopers found an abandoned church bus out on Glen Hollow Road , and the sole remaining survivor had a hole in his head the size of a .38-caliber bullet .」
Raylan Givens:「See , now , that 's why I do n't go to church .」

Art:「Well , you should start , but not with this one , 'cause apparently it does n't exist . Bus was stolen , and they found a receipt on the floor from a convenience store in Jacksonville , Florida .」
Raylan Givens:「Oxy run ?」
Art:「Mm - hmm . Probably on the return leg . Then it was hit by another set of criminals .」
Raylan Givens:「sh1 t .」
Art:「You think it was him ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , I do n't know , what do you think ? I do n't know , you told me he was playing it straight . It would n't be the first time he said one thing and did another . I 'll give you a call when I get down to Harlan .」
Art:「All right . Holy sh1 t . Wait a minute . I got it . Winona . You were out with Winona .」
narration:[ Laughs ]
 Oh , sh1 t . And I thought sleeping with a witness was stupid .
Raylan Givens:「Hey . No , no , no . Hey . It ai n't like that .」
Art:「I really would like to know what it is like .」

Raylan Givens:「And I 'd love to tell you , but right now my presence is needed in Harlan .」
Art:「[ Chuckles ] You 're a thrill a minute , Raylan . We need to sell tickets .」
narration:[ Indistinct conversations ]
Pruitt:「I ask you something , Crowder ?」
narration:How 'd you manage to get this job , huh ? I heard about you , some of the things you done . This ai n't the most reputable operation in the world , but seems to me they could have done better than hiring a murdering ex - con .
Boyd:「Maybe you should ask the people who hired me .」
Pruitt:「I 'd rather ask you .」
Kyle:「Hey , Pruitt . You ai n't got no cause for that . Leave him alone .」
narration:[ Scoffs ]
 Spend all that time down below , looking out for people , just to come up and start brawling . I 'm Kyle . So you 're Boyd Crowder , huh ?
Boyd:「Yeah , that 's right .」
Kyle:「I been here a couple days . How about you ? How long you been here ?」
Boyd:「Not long this go - round .」

Kyle:「Hey , say ... you know where a fella can get a drink in a dry county ?」
Boyd:「There 's a bar in a puddle out by Cumberland .」
Kyle:「Well , I tell you what . I 'm buying if you care to join .」
Boyd:「No offense , Kyle , but , uh , I prefer to drink alone .」
Kyle:「None taken . Maybe next time . Gon na be a tough hog ho tie .」
Tom:「Now , the way I figure it , we got two tracks . One is , who was running this Oxy bus ? The other ones , who set out to rob it ? I figure you 're right . And that fella got shot , Bobby Lawton ...」
Raylan Givens:「Mm - hmm ?」
Tom:「He 's Frankfort , born and raised .」
Raylan Givens:「Dixie mafia ?」
Tom:「You got any experience with that bunch ?」
Raylan Givens:「Little bit .」
narration:[ Siren chirps ]
Doyle:「Good day , gentlemen .」
Raylan Givens:「Doyle .」
Tom:「Chief .」
Doyle:「Quite a mess we got here .」
Raylan Givens:「Mm - hmm .」

Tom:「It 'll do .」
Doyle:「I know you two do n't hold the local P.D. in the highest regard ... and I ca n't say I blame you after what 's transpired down here ... But the last thing we want is criminals stealing from criminals , people shooting at each other out of pickup trucks .」
narration:So you all find anything or need a hand , y' all let me know . You gon na talk to Boyd Crowder about this ? It seems like it 's in his wheelhouse , as they say .
Raylan Givens:「That it does .」
Doyle:「Are you aware of his current living situation ?」
Raylan Givens:「Hmm ?」
Doyle:「Well , you can find him shacked up over at Ava 's .」
Raylan Givens:「Hmm .」
Dewey:「Aah - aah !」
Boyd:「Dewey Crowe . You come to regale me with stories of your Floridian adventures .」

Dewey:「Surprised you got the nerve to ask me that , boy . I 'm sorry , do you find that offensive ? God damn it , do n't play with me I know it was you . What was me ? I saw Cutter Boyd , I know you tipped him off , I was gon na make $ 200 from that trip , and now I got nothing . Wait a second , you talkin ' about Cutter from the " Commando days ? " How many Cutters do you know ? What was it you think I had him do ? Rob the damn bus , what do you think ? Oh , well this figures . Hey , Ava . You got two minutes to get him out of here . Bye , Ava . She looks as good as ever , huh ? Are you tellin ' me , that the reason why you 're here is that Cutter robbed your Oxy bus , and you think I 'm responsible . I do n't care that you robbed it Boyd , but I need that money . These here are rockhard times for Dewey Crowe . - I had no hand in it . Well , why should I believe that ? Alright . If ... if you did n't have a hand in it , then I 'll assume you wo n't mind if I make a play for it myself .」
Boyd:「What are you thinking ? Do n't .」
Dewey:「Do n't what ?」
Boyd:「Do n't go to Amber Holler and try to rob some robbers .」
Dewey:「I was n't gon na do that .」
Boyd:「They probably already unloaded it by now , and if they have n't , they 're gon na be on edge , high on their own stash . Now , you do n't want to walk into that .」
Dewey:「Spoken like a man protecting his associates .」
Boyd:「Spoken like a man who does n't want to see you get killed . Hey ! Whoever Cutter took those pills from is gon na want them back . Now , you take them from Cutter , you 're gon na have two sets of angry killers looking high and low for you and that oxy .」
Dewey:「I know you think I 'm stupid , Boyd , but ... I ai n't . I 'm gon na get what 's mine , and you 'd be best not to get in my way .」
narration:[ Engine turns over ]
Boyd:「I 'm gon na ask you one more time , son .」
narration:Do n't do it .
 [ Birds chirping ]
 [ Knock on door ]
Raylan Givens:「Hello , Ava .」

Ava:「[ Scoffs ]」
Raylan Givens:「Sorry just to stop by like this , but I need a minute .」
Ava:「Okay .」
narration:What can I do for you , Raylan ?
Raylan Givens:「Actually , I 'm here for Boyd .」
Ava:「You see his truck ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm not familiar with his truck .」
Ava:「Tell the truth . You come to my door to talk to Boyd or to ask me why he 's living in my house ?」
Raylan Givens:「I 'm here on business , Ava .」
Ava:「Raylan , Bowman did n't leave me with much more than shitty memories and a balloon payment on a mortgage that I ca n't afford . Now , I work at the beauty parlor in Crobin , but it ai n't hardly enough . And Boyd , he helps out . I know it 's odd . But do you realize he 's the only kin I have left ?」
Raylan Givens:「It sounds mutually beneficial . Has he left for work ?」

Ava:「We have an arrangement . No liquor in the house . I was drinking way too much . Maybe you noticed . And no trouble with the law . He does anything I find the least bit offensive , I throw him out . It 's really pretty simple .」
Raylan Givens:「Ava , why I 'm here ... I 'm looking into the possibility that he had a hand in hijacking an oxy bus , shooting a guard . There are these pill mills in Florida do n't computerize records . Dixie mafia 's been hiring busload of folks to go down to Broward County ...」
Ava:「Yeah , I know what an oxy bus is . I read the papers . You think Boyd hijacked one ?」
Raylan Givens:「I would n't be standing here otherwise .」
Ava:「[ Exhales , chuckles ] Guess that explains Dewey being here .」
Raylan Givens:「Dewey Crowe ? He was here ?」
Ava:「Mm - hmm . He and Boyd were arguing about something . I did n't pay much attention to what . Guess maybe I should have .」
Raylan Givens:「Ava .」
Ava:「Mm - hmm ?」
Raylan Givens:「Anything you can tell me would be helpful .」

Ava:「Boyd already left for his night shift . But he does n't go straight to the mine . He stops at Audry 's first . I 'm sure you know where that is . You probably lost your virginity there . Good luck !」
narration:[ Vehicle approaches ]
 Sorry son , we close early on Tuesday . I just need me a ski mask , wo n't take but a second . A ski mask ? That 's right . Son this is Kentucky , what do you need a ski mask for ? Who are you ? The ski mask police ? You got one or not ? Well I do n't have ski masks , maybe you should try the surplus store down the street . They 're the ones who sent me here . There 's always Ebay . He what ? It do n't have to be a ski mask , you got a catchers mask or , one of them Hockey goalie masks like they wear in that slasher movie . You want I should call the police right now and save you the trouble ?
Dewey:「Well , I thought this was America . Are you telling me a man ca n't buy a mask in America no more ? You 're welcome to buy anything you see here , son . But you do it now , because I 'm fixing to lock that door in two minutes .」
Raylan Givens:「Back in Audry 's . Feel like I 'm 13 again .」

Boyd:「Late bloomer , huh ?」
Raylan Givens:「Is it just me , or has the presence of a U.S. marshal made these folks uneasy ?」
Boyd:「Well , maybe it 's just your hat . I do n't suppose you being here is a coincidence .」
Raylan Givens:「Hey , where 's Dewey ? Is he here , too ?」
Boyd:「Well , why would I know where Dewey is ?」
Raylan Givens:「Well , I heard you guys have been hanging out again .」
Boyd:「Ava told you that ?」
Raylan Givens:「Mmm . I got to admit , it took me by surprise , you and her shacking up .」
Boyd:「Well , it 's not what you think .」
Raylan Givens:「She told me if you looked at her funny , she 'd kick you out .」
Boyd:「Well , maybe it is what you think . Your reason for being here would be ?」
Raylan Givens:「Is to ask you if you had anything to do with that oxy bus getting jacked out on Glen Hollow Road .」

Boyd:「[ Sighs ] Now , why , considering the context of our last conversation , would you come here and ask me about that ? I thought I made myself fairly clear about my intentions .」
Raylan Givens:「Simple question . Yes or no .」
Boyd:「True , but the real question is whether or not you will believe my answer .」
Raylan Givens:「Well ... Hell , give it a shot . We 'll see .」
Boyd:「[ Sighs , laughs ] No , Raylan . I had nothing to do with that bus being robbed .」
Raylan Givens:「Okay . I do n't suppose you know who did ?」
Boyd:「If I did know , would I be obligated to share it with you ?」
Raylan Givens:「That 's up to you . How much blood do you want on your hands ? How much did you enjoy prison ?」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Dewey:「Federal marshal ! Show me those hands and get on the goddamn ground !」
Cutter:「Oh , my God !」

Dewey:「Sit down ! Hands behind your heads ! I will put a hole through you if you make me . You boys think you 're pretty smart , do n't you ? Well , if you was , I would n't be standing here . You gon na tell me where the rest of them pills is at , or are you gon na keep being smart ?」
Cutter:「What pills ?」
Dewey:「Outlaw life 's hard , ai n't it ? Now you gon na tell me , or I 'm gon na start putting bullets in places that bleed .」
Elrod:「You ca n't do that .」
Dewey:「Hell , I ca n't ! I 'm federal marshal Raylan Givens ! Do n't nobody mess with me ' round these parts . Now , where 's them pills at ? !」
narration:[ Gunshot ]
Elrod:「All right ! Okay , the microwave .」
Dewey:「Either of you move , it 'll be the last mistake you ever make .」
Cutter:「You have any idea who you 're messing with , asshole ?」
Dewey:「Hmm , well , let me see .」
narration:Is he a federal marshal , like I am ? Then I do n't give a sh1 t !
Cutter:「We 'll see you again .」
narration:[ Groans ]
Dewey:「Yeah , well , do n't you forget .」
narration:It 's Raylan Givens . Come looking for me . You hear ? If I was you boys , I 'd give up this oxy bullshit . Go back to poaching gators . It 's safer .
 [ Door opens , closes ]
 [ Dog barking ]
Raylan Givens:「Your C.I. saw this guy come in and rob these boys of their pills .」

Doyle:「That 's right .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , she get a good look at him ?」
Doyle:「Yeah , she did .」
Raylan Givens:「Well ?」
Doyle:「Raylan , you and I go back a long way .」
narration:We grew up around here together . Our families have both had their issues with the law . And despite that criminal element , both of us became lawmen .
Raylan Givens:「I 'm sorry . What are we talking about ?」
Doyle:「I got to thinking , " maybe Raylan is n't the man I always thought he was . Hell , maybe Raylan ai n't the man everybody thinks he is . "」
Raylan Givens:「Was that supposed to be an answer ?」
Doyle:「Sometimes a man does a thing , and certain folks , they might see that thing as something wrong . Others , they might embrace that . Hell , I mean , they might even be in a position to help that man out , providing that favor gets returned later on .」
Raylan Givens:「Are you speaking Martian , Doyle , 'cause I swear I do n't ...」
Doyle:「I know you took them pills , Raylan .」
Raylan Givens:「I did what , now ?」

Doyle:「The C.I. in there ? She seen the whole thing . She said marshal Raylan Givens busted in there , hat and all , and stole them pills , at gunpoint .」
Raylan Givens:「Well , then , I guess you got me , Doyle .」
Doyle:「I do .」
Raylan Givens:「Oh , for Christ 's sakes ! Am I the man you saw ? Man I saw what ?」
Doyle:「Who robbed Elrod and Cutter . [ Laughing ] Lord , no .
 Well , you said ...」
Raylan Givens:「And you believed her ?」
Doyle:「I do n't know you , Raylan ! Ha ! I mean , you think there ai n't never been a dirty marshal ?」
Raylan Givens:「What was that sh1 t you were saying ?」
Doyle:「What sh1 t ?」
Raylan Givens:「About " you think you know a man but do n't " ?」
Doyle:「I was just feeling you out , pal , just making sure .」
Raylan Givens:「Is that what that was ? Like the way one drug user tries to see if a man he just met is carrying ? Something like that ?」
Doyle:「That 's how you see .」