Robert Angier:「V.O.) A cypher. An enigma...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) ...Borden's cypher is simple- unraveled by a single word. Now it takes only patience. And a passion to know his mind.」

Robert Angier:「Quit a reception.」

Robert Angier:「As long as it takes.」

Robert Angier:「Not the welcome I was expecting.」

narrator:SHOTGUN I know you. You're that magician-the Great Danton. (helps Angier up) I'm Alley. I saw your show. IN London. Seven times- you guessed every object the audience had in their pockets. Angier leans on his cane and gently brushes off the dirt.
ALLEY:「I'm sorry about the fence. People keep interfering with our work.」
Robert Angier:「I've come to see Tesla.」
ALLEY:「Why?」
Robert Angier:「He built a machine for a- for a colleague of mine. A long time ago. Can you get me a meeting with him? (off his look) I've come a very long way.」
ALLEY:「Impossible, I'm afraid.」
Robert Angier:「I've brought a lot of money. Beat.」
ALLEY:「I'm sorry, Mr.Angier. I simply can't help you. Alley pulls the fence closed.」
Robert Angier:「I'll be staying at the hotel. Indefinitely. Alley watches Angier walk away. He pulls something from his pocket.」
ALLEY:「What am I holding? Angier doesn't look back.」
Robert Angier:「Your watch.」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) April 3rd, 1893... a few days after he first met me...」

Robert Angier:「He can't use plants for every trick.」

Robert Angier:「Actually, I do.」

Robert Angier:「I could.」

Robert Angier:「Show it to me twice, I'll do it.」

Robert Angier:「Why?」

Robert Angier:「Chung Ling Soo.」

Robert Angier:「Which is?」

Robert Angier:「Where's he from?」

Robert Angier:「He works for another magician? Aren't you worried he'll steal your tricks?」

Robert Angier:「How do you know?」

narrator:CUTTER
 SLY SMILE) Because I hired him to try and find out Virgil's orange trick.
Robert Angier:「I don't know if I trust him.」
CUTTER:「He's a natural magician. Of course you can't trust him.」
JULIA:「I think he's alright. Angier turns to Julia. Smiles.」
Robert Angier:「You think everyone's alright.」

Robert Angier:「You're wrong. It can't be.」

Robert Angier:「but look at the man!」

Robert Angier:「I can barely lift this thing and it's not even filled with water. Or fish. He must be strong as an ox.」

Robert Angier:「Any time he's in public. Any time he goes out. It's unthinkable.」

Robert Angier:「Borden saw it at once. I couldn't fathom it- living your whole life pretending to be someone else.」

Robert Angier:「I don't think changing your name compares.」

Robert Angier:「I promised my family I wouldn't embarrass them with my theatrical endeavors. Angier cuddles up to Julia.」

Robert Angier:「It's French.」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Borden writes as if no one but he understood the true nature of magic...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) ...but what does he know of self- sacrifice more than the rest of us?」

Robert Angier:「How can be not know?!」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) He must know what he did. He must.」

Robert Angier:「Why are you here?」

Robert Angier:「My profession also deals in secrets.」

Robert Angier:「It's a rotating transposition that shifts every day of the dairy. Simple but time-consuming to translate once you have the five-letter keyword.」

Robert Angier:「We magicians have a circle of trust.」

Robert Angier:「Maybe I bought it.」

Robert Angier:「It's how we pay for our retirements and how greats tricks outlive us.」

Robert Angier:「I've already found it. That's why I'm here.」

Robert Angier:「Tesla built one for another magician.」

Robert Angier:「Call it a professional rivalry.」

Robert Angier:「I understand discretion. I just want the machine.」

Robert Angier:「I thought it was a secret.」

Robert Angier:「Where are the wires?」

Robert Angier:「Where's the generator?」

Robert Angier:「But that must be ten miles from here.」

Robert Angier:「Never thought I'd find an answer at the bottom of a pint glass.」

Robert Angier:「Who?」

Robert Angier:「You got me a booking? Why?」

Robert Angier:「Someone who know that it wasn't your fault. Someone who knows Alfred Borden and his repertoire of exotic knots.」

Robert Angier:「To die like that. Locked in water... lungs screaming...」

Robert Angier:「Which knot did Borden tie that night?」

Robert Angier:「Wouldn't say?!」

Robert Angier:「We should see about an assistant.」
CUTTER:「I've made arrangements. Have you settled on a name?」
Robert Angier:「Yes, I have. The Great Danton.」
CUTTER:「Hmm. Bit old-fashioned? Angier smiles gently at Cutter.」
Robert Angier:「No. It's sophisticated.」

Robert Angier:「The bird cage can't be our climax- everybody knows it.」

Robert Angier:「And I don't want to kill doves.」

Robert Angier:「You sound like him.」

Robert Angier:「I need a volunteer.」

Robert Angier:「Of course not.」

Robert Angier:「And one, two... THREE!」

Robert Angier:「Bloody marvelous, Cutter.」

Robert Angier:「Thought you said I had to get my hands dirty.」

Robert Angier:「Don't worry.」

Robert Angier:「You sir, in the hat. Could you show us your handkerchief?」

Robert Angier:「Perhaps you'd be so good as to return it to the other man. He has yours.」

narrator:INT. BACKSTAGE -- EVENING
 Cutter and Olivia are waiting for Angier as he comes off.
OLIVIA:「I'm so nervous- I'm sorry, I'm making mistakes. Cutter quickly REMOVES Angier's coat...」
Robert Angier:「The audience doesn't seem to be responding much, Cutter. Cutter puts he LEATHER HARNESS over Angier's arms...」
CUTTER:「This is a grand theatre with a sophisticated audience- They've seen most of these tricks before. But not this next one. You'll see. Cutter checks the SPRINGS of the harness and replaces Angier's coat. He spots a STAGEHAND poking his head around the flies.
 You! Piss off out it! The dancers are wrapping up.」
Robert Angier:「Wish us luc, Cutter.」
narrator:CUTTER
 SMILING) I'll have the champagne ready. Angier, followed by Olivia, steps out onto the stage.
 INT. STAGE -- CONTINUOUS
 Angier steps to the table center stage. Pulls out the bird cage. There are one or two groans from the audience. Angier SMILES as he produces a DOVE with a FLOURISH.
Robert Angier:「You've seen this one before?」
narrator:HECKLER (O.S.) Seen 'em all before, mate! Laughter.

Robert Angier:「Well, I'll make it a little harder, shall I?」

Robert Angier:「Two volunteers, please. A lady and a gentleman to hold this cage with me...」

Robert Angier:「I'll perform this feat in a manner never before seen by yourselves or by any other audience anywhere in the worth...」

Robert Angier:「Any magician can make this cage disappear... that's why I'll ask this good lady and fine gentleman to place their hands firmly on the cage...」

Robert Angier:「...to ensure that no trickery whatsover is employed.」

Robert Angier:「I should've spotted him.」

Robert Angier:「Don't suppose they'll let us do this one again.」

Robert Angier:「So what's the climax of our show?」

Robert Angier:「Mr.Merrit, we have a week's engagment-」

Robert Angier:「The name stays.」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) I saw hapiness...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) ...hapiness that should have been mine. But I was wrong.」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Reading his account I realize that he never had the life I envied.」

Robert Angier:「The family life he craves one minute he rails against the next, demanding freedom. His mind is a divided one...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) His soul restless. His wife and child tormented by his fickle and contradictory nature...」

OLIVIA:「I don't really.... have anywhere to go. Angier slips the newspaper from the table.」
Robert Angier:「You've been sleeping here?」
OLIVIA:「Cutter said it would be okay till we get another booking.」
narrator:BEAT) What are you doing?
Robert Angier:「Researching. Part of a magician's job is to watch his competition, to see what illusions they're-」
OLIVIA:「You're going to do something to that man, aren't you? Olivia moves closer. Angier is quiet.
 Cutter's hopig you'll let things life. He says if Borden thinks things are even between you then we can-」
Robert Angier:「Even? My wife for a couple of his fingers? He has a child now. And he's perfoming again.」

narrator:On the small raised stage, Borden works through his way through the Chinese rings with GLOVED HANDS to hide his damaged fingers. The tough crowd is JEERING AT HIM. Borden puts the rings down on a table and PICKS UP a bag.
BORDEN:「I need a volunteer. Angier takes a few steps towards the stage. Borden produces a RUBBER BALL. he TOSSES the ball to Angier.
 As you can see , it's just a rubber ball. But it's not normal at all. Angier examines the ball. Hands it back to Borden who shows no sign of recognizing Angier.
 Thank you. Angier notices that two TALL BLACK CABINETS are standing twenty feet apart on the stage.」
narrator:TO AUDIENCE) You're not impressed? Borden BOUNCES the BALL on the ground and catches it.
BORDEN:「It's a magic ball. Borden continues to BOUNCE the ball on the floor. The audience looks bored, waiting for something to happen.」
OLIVIA:「V.O.) What happened?」
narrator:INT. ANGIER'S WORKSHOP -- NIGHT
 Angier still in disguise, is slumped in an armchair, drink in hand. He is SMILING, remembering. Olivia, sitting on the workbench, waits for him to continue.
OLIVIA:「What happened, Robert?」
Robert Angier:「He had a new trick.」

narrator:Angier looks at her...
 INT. TINY, GRUBBY THEATRE -- EVENING
 Now it's CUTTER standing in the audience, watching. Onstage, Borden BOUNCES the ball over and over again.
Robert Angier:「V.O.) It was the greatest magic trick I have ever seen. Borden walks to one side of the stage and OPENS the door to one of the cabinets. It's empty. He CLOSES it again and crosses the stage, BOUNCING the ball the whole way. At the far cabinet, Borden repeats the process, OPENING the door to the empty cabinet. This time, however, he leaves the door open. He steps forwards and GENTLY BOUNCES the ball SIDEWAYS, across the stage... Borden STEPS into the CABINET behind him, CLOSING the door. With no one on stage, the audience watches as the ball continues to BOUNCE across the stage. BOUNCE. BOUNCE. BOUNCE. The ball loses seep and height... Just as reaches the second cabinet, something IMPOSSIBLE happens.」

narrator:THE DOOR TO THE SECOND CABINET OPENS AND BORDEN STEPS OUT,
 CATCHING THE BALL. Cutter FLINCHES, then studies Borden. The audience is BEMUSED. Finally, a trickle of applause.
 INT. ANGIER'S WORKSHOP -- DAY
 Angier is talking to Cutter. Olivia is watching.
Robert Angier:「Did they applaud when you saw it?」

CUTTER:「The trick is too good -- too simple- the audience harly knows what they've seen.」
Robert Angier:「He's a dreadful magician.」
CUTTER:「He's a wonderfull magician- he's a dreadful showman. He doesn't know how to dress it up, how to sell the trick.」
Robert Angier:「How does he do it?」
CUTTER:「He uses a double.」
narrator:ANGIER
 SHAKES HEAD) It's not that simple. This is a complex illusion.
CUTTER:「You think that because you don't know the method. It's a double who comes out at the end. It's the only way.」
Robert Angier:「I've seen his perfom ir three times now, Mr. Cutter- the Prestige is the」
narrator:SAME MAN-
 CUTTER
 IT'S NOT-
Robert Angier:「The same man comes out of the second cabinet. I promise you.」

Robert Angier:「He doesn't know how to sell his trick to an audience. But I do.」

Robert Angier:「The man stole my life. I'm going to steal his trick.」

Robert Angier:「He doesn't use a double-」

Robert Angier:「Take a good look- let's get out there and find me.」

Robert Angier:「I saw a lecture you gave in London, several years ago. I'm flattered you agreed to see me. Tesla keeps hold as Angier's hand.」

Robert Angier:「What's conducting the electricity?」

Robert Angier:「I need something impossible.」

TESLA:「(off his look) It's a lie. Man's grasp exceeds his nerve. The only limits on scientific progress are these imposed by society. Tesla looks out at the mountains.
 The first time I changed the world I was hailed as a visionary. The second time I was asked politely to retire. The world only tolerates one change at a time. And so here I am. (gestures at laboratory) Enjoying "retirement". (looking at Angier) Nothing is impossible, Mr. Angier. What you want is simply expensive. Tesla rises, washing his hands in a basin on a side table.
 Alley says you are a stage magician. If a built you this device, you would be presenting it only as an illusion?」
Robert Angier:「If people thought the things I did on stage were real, they wouldn't clap- they'd scream. Think of saving a woman in half. Tesla nods. Considering.」
TESLA:「Mr.Angier, the cost of such a machine-」
Robert Angier:「Price is not an object.」
TESLA:「Perhaps not. But have you considered the cost?」
Robert Angier:「I'm noit sure I follow.」

Robert Angier:「Have your obsessions done you no good?」
TESLA:「At first. But I've followed them too long- I am their slave. Their whipping boy. And one day they may choose to destroy me. Angier looks into Tesla's eyes.」
Robert Angier:「if you understand an obsession then you know you won't change my mind.」
narrator:TESLA
 SMILES) So be it.
Robert Angier:「Will you build it?」

Robert Angier:「He's out of his mind.」

Robert Angier:「I don't need him to be my brother. I need him to be me.」

Robert Angier:「It has to be. Borden's trick is getting noticed. The place was packed today.」

Robert Angier:「All I have to do is keep myself stinking drunk all the time and no one will be able to tell the difference.」

ROOT:「Did you think you were unique, Mr. Angier? I have been Cassar. I have been Faust. How difficult could it possibly be to play 'The Great Danton?'」
CUTTER:「You can go back to being yourself. Root. For free.. Root looks challengingly at both men.」
ROOT:「I'd rather be him, for now. I find it amusing. Root WAVES his hands across his chest, in the same manner that Angier does onstage. He produces a bottle of Gin from thin air, and takes a long swallow and jumps down to Olivia.」
CUTTER:「Root has to keep a low profile-- anyone sees him the game's up.」
narrator:ANGIER
 WATCHING ROOT) I don't know how you do these things, Cutter. I'm not sure I want to know.
CUTTER:「Have you thought about what we should call the trick?」
Robert Angier:「No point being coy. Borden calls his trick 'The Transported Man'? Cutter nods.」

Robert Angier:「Ladies and gentlemen, much of what you've seen tonight can be termed illusions. Entertaining trifles of the sort you may have seen other magicians perform.」

Robert Angier:「Alas, I cannot claim this next feat as illusion. Watch carefully- you will see no trickery, for no trickery is being employed. Merely a techique familiar to certain citizens of the orient and various holy men of the Himalyas. Indeed, some of you may be familiar with this technique, but for those of you who aren't, do not be alarmed, what you are about to see is considered safe...」

narrator:INT. DRESSING ROOM -- EVENING
 Angier, Olivia, and Cutter are CELEBRATING their sucess. Empty bottles of champagne line the makeup table.
 OLIVIA
 TOAST) To our achivement. They drink.
CUTTER:「The manager said he's never seen a reaction like it. Angier smiles, rueful.」
Robert Angier:「At least he got to see it. I spent the ovation hidden under the stage. No one cares about the man who disappears, the man who goes into the box. They care about the man who comes out the other side.」
OLIVIA:「I care about the man in the box. Angier turns to Olivia, raises his glass.」
Robert Angier:「Thank you.」

Robert Angier:「I suppose I should get more rest.」

Robert Angier:「The trick isn't good enough.」

Robert Angier:「No.」

Robert Angier:「It's not as good as his trick.」

Robert Angier:「He doesn't have to spend the finale hiding under the stage.」

Robert Angier:「I need to know how he does it.」
OLIVIA:「Why?」
Robert Angier:「So that I can do it better. Angier turns to her. Looks her in the eye.
 I need you to go and work for him.」
OLIVIA:「Work for him? Are you joking」
Robert Angier:「You'll be my spy.」
narrator:OLIVIA
 TAKEN ABACK) We just got our start and you want me to leave?
Robert Angier:「It's how we advance. Angier moves to Olivia, placing his hands on her shoulders.
 Think of it, Olivia... we've got people excited about Cutter's version of the trick- imagine what we could do with the real illusion. We'll have the greatest magic act anyone's ever seen.」
narrator:OLIVIA
 FRUSTATED) He knows I work for you.
Robert Angier:「Exactly why he'll want to hire you. He'll want my secrets.」
OLIVIA:「Why would he trust me? Angier thinks for a second. Then smiles.」
Robert Angier:「Because you're going to tell him the truth.」

Robert Angier:「I don't understand-」

narrator:INT. BACKSTAGE -- DAY
 Cutter is fixing a prop mechanism. Angier approaches, in his undershirt, looks over his shoulder. Cutter glances up.
CUTTER:「Best be getting changed for the martinee, sir. - Angier nods. Cutter REALIZES.
 ROOT! You're late.」
narrator:SNIFFS) And even more drunk than usual. Get yourself below stairs, right away!
ROOT:「No.」
CUTTER:「No?! Root looks at Cutter with genuine malice.」
ROOT:「We need to have a chat, Mr.Cutter.」
narrator:INT. DRESSING ROOM -- DAY
 Angier is applying his makeup. Cutter enters. Angier looks at him through the mirror.
Robert Angier:「We have a problem, Cutter. He holds up the paper, folded to an advertisement:」
narrator:PANTAGES THEATRE- FROM NEXT WEEK- THE PROFESSOR WILL
 DEMONSTRATE THE ORIGINAL TRANSPORTED MAN- ACCEPT NO CHEAP
 IMITATIONS!!!
Robert Angier:「He'll be perfoming right across the street.」
CUTTER:「We have a bigger problem. Root.」
Robert Angier:「Don't tell me he fell over again.」

Robert Angier:「He's blackmailing us?」

CUTTER:「In a word, yes. I'm surprised, to be honest- it usually takes them a lot longer to figure it out.」
Robert Angier:「How much does he want?」
CUTTER:「It makes no difference- we have to stop doing the trick.」
narrator:ANGIER
 WIELDS PAPER) Stop doing the trick? Look at this.
CUTTER:「Look at yesterday's. And last week's, where they called you "London's premiere stage performer", not "magician" mind. Performer. Of any kind.」
Robert Angier:「What's the point?」
CUTTER:「My point, Robert, is that you've climbed too high to get away with any kind of professional embarrassament. We're not doing any tricks we can't control. Angier considers this. Nods. Thinking.」
Robert Angier:「Pay him whatever he wants, for now. We keep doing the trick till Borden opens, then we'll phase it out.」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Cutter was always surprised how fast Root turned bad.」

narrator:Angier sits with Borden's dairy.
Robert Angier:「V.O.) We paid him enough to keep him in beer- you wouldn't expect him to rock the boat. Today I learned Borden's view on the episode...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) ...and his account suggests a reason.」

Robert Angier:「some of you may be familiar with this technique, but for those of you who aren't, do not be alarmed, what you are about to see is considered safe...」

Robert Angier:「Well, he did.」

Robert Angier:「No. I don't.」

Robert Angier:「He's the Great Danton. Let him cut himself down.」

Robert Angier:「You weren't expecting me?」

Robert Angier:「Well, it takes a bit for me to get around these days...」

Robert Angier:「He's taken everything from me. My wife, my career... now you.」

Robert Angier:「I sent you to steal his secret- not to improve his act-」

Robert Angier:「Or to fall in love with him!」

Robert Angier:「Of course Borden said that-」

Robert Angier:「All the time, Olivia- that's who he is, that's what it takes- he lives his act, don't you see?!」

Robert Angier:「You stole it?」

Robert Angier:「I can't.」

Robert Angier:「Olivia, no one could-」

Robert Angier:「Perhaps never. We'll see.」

Robert Angier:「You can'r possibly think I'd let this go? This is his diary, Olivia. All of his secrets are right here, in my hands.」

Robert Angier:「I need to know his method.」

Robert Angier:「I don't care about my wife- I care about his secret!」

Robert Angier:「Look, I'll go to his workshop and stage a break-in-」

Robert Angier:「Yes, me, not you. Understand?」

OLIVIA:「Robert? I have fallen in love with him. Angier looks at her, sympathetic.」
Robert Angier:「Then I know how hard this had been hard for you.」

Robert Angier:「Why's that?」

Robert Angier:「The sacrifice, I'm afraid, is all going to be yours. Unless you give me what I want.」

Robert Angier:「Your secret.」

Robert Angier:「Your method for the Transported Man. Fallon wouldn't tell me. In fact, he doesn't talk at all.」

Robert Angier:「Useless without the keyword.」

Robert Angier:「Write down your method Mr. Borden. Describe it in full.」

Robert Angier:「I want the method not the keyword- I don't even know if the secret is in you notebook.」

narrator:Angier plucks the folded paper from Borden's hand.
Robert Angier:「How fast can you gid?」

Robert Angier:「How's the arm?」

Robert Angier:「Our answer, Cutter. I haven't looked yet, I wanted you to share this.」

Robert Angier:「Well, let's find out, shall we?」

Robert Angier:「Then the rest is up to me.」

Robert Angier:「I thought I had the place to myself.」

Robert Angier:「No?」

Robert Angier:「」

Robert Angier:「I've veen played for a fool!」

Robert Angier:「Tesla never made a machine like the one I asked for.」

Robert Angier:「You let me believe that he had, Alley!」

Robert Angier:「You stole my money because your funding was cut off- you've been shooting sparks at my top hat, laughing at me all along while you use my money to stave off ruin. I've seen Edison's men-」

Robert Angier:「In the hotel. I've every mind to bring them up here myself-」

Robert Angier:「Then why isn't the machine working?」

Robert Angier:「Where did my top hat go?」

ALLEY:「We've tried the damn thing a dozen times. And the hat went nowhere.」
TESLA:「Which is why we need to rey a different material. It may provoke a different result. Tesla opens the cage and points the open end at Alley.
 You don't expect me to handle the thing myself? Alley reluctantly reaches into the cage and pulls out the TERRIFIED CAT. He jumps down into the pit and secures the animal bu its collar to a eye-hook sunk into the ground.」
ALLEY:「You are responsible for whatever happens to this animal, Doctor. Alley pulls himself out of the pit, and Tesla CHARGES the generator. The cat stares up at the machine around it and HISSES. Without ceremony, Tesla FIRES the machine. As before, large BOLTS spew from the head of the machine, down towards the unseen cat. The machine build to a DEAFENING ROAR, then sputters out. Silence. The three men begin edging towards the pit. Suddenly, a terrifying SCREECH. The cat is still there, still tied to the hook. Alley breathes a sigh of relief and starts to free the car. Tesla looks frustated. Suddenly, the cat bursts free of Alley and ROCJETS through the open side door of the lab.」
Robert Angier:「I'll go. Angier limps after the cat.」

Robert Angier:「Here, kitty, kitty.」

Robert Angier:「So the machine was working?」

TESLA:「Don't forget your hat. Angier stops and looks at the pile of hats.」
Robert Angier:「Which one is mine?」

Robert Angier:「What box?」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Tesla's warning is as unheard as he knew it would be. Today I tested the machine...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Taking precautions in case Tesla hadn't ironed out the kinks in its operation...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) ...if it went wrong I would not want to live like that for long...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) But here, at the Turn, I must leave you, Borden...」

Robert Angier:「Yes, you, Borden. Sitting there, in your cell, reading my diary. Awaiting your death. For my murder.」

narrator:INT. ALBERT HALL -- EVENING
 Cutter makes his way past the tattered box office and into the derelivt auditorium. In the middle of the room is the CRATE. Cutter stands and stares at it.
 MALE VOICE (O.S.)
 WHO'S THERE Cutter turns. A STAGEHAND. His eyes are solid white. The man is clearly BLIND.
CUTTER:「I- I'm looking for an old friend-」
Robert Angier:「O.S.) I heard about a booking... Cutter turns. Angier is behind him, leaning on his cane. Beside Angier is a SECOND BLIND STAGEHAND.
 Nice little theatre. Good up-and- coming magician.」
CUTTER:「You came back.」
Robert Angier:「It's a good to see you, John. Cutter sizes Angier up. Looks around the theatre.」
CUTTER:「Good rehearsal space. Blind stagehands. I like it-」
narrator:KNOWING SMILE) You always had an eye for publicity. Angier sits in one of the stalls. Cutter follows suit.
Robert Angier:「I need your help, John. My last show. A limited engagement.」
CUTTER:「Your last show?」

Robert Angier:「A wise man once told me that obsession was a young man's game. I'm almost done. One thing left... (points at crate) The real Transported Man.」

Robert Angier:「i don't want you backstage, I need you front of house, managing.」

Robert Angier:「i need you calling in any favours and connections you have left to get us the right booking for the run.」

Robert Angier:「The sort that Borden can't ignore. Cutter looks at Angier. Nods.」

Robert Angier:「Pleased to meet you, Mr. Ackerman.」

Robert Angier:「Are you interested in helping us?」

Robert Angier:「Ladies and gentlemen, my first trick of the evening is one that involves considerable risk. (removes his coat) Anyone in the audience who would be irrevocable damaged by seeing a man drown should leave now, for when I tell you that the young lady who taught performing it, you will understand the seriousness of the danger involved.」

Robert Angier:「In my travels I have seen the future, and it is a strange future indeed. The world is on the brink of new and terrifying possibilities. The audience RECOILS in terror as the MACHINE is STARTED and BOLTS fly from it. SMOKE drift over the audience. Borden inches forward in his seat. Angier stands in front of the machine, silhouetted by the FRENZY of electricity behind him. He TOSSES his cane to his assistant and steps into the machine. The audience SCREAMS as large bolts BLAST from the machine and wrap themselves around ANGIER'S ARMS and legs. Borden is watching very carefully. Angier is almost impossible to see as the machine builds to a climax, but, just before it does; Borden catches a glimpse of ANGIER'S」
narrator:BODY FALLING THROUGH A TRAP DOOR. The machine sputters out. Angier has DISAPPEARED. The lights are dim. A FOLLOW SPOT FIRES into the BOXES, audience looks up with a gathering commotion- ANGIER IS STANDING ON THE RAIL OF THE ROYAL BOX, thirtyfeet above stalls. He smiles down at the audience.
Robert Angier:「Man's reach exceeds his IMAGINATION! The audience breaks into a MASSIVE STANDING OVATION.」

Robert Angier:「You found him.」

Robert Angier:「I told you, John- I don't want you backstage on this one.」

Robert Angier:「Disposing of the Prestige materials.」

Robert Angier:「Do you really want to know? Cutter considers Angier's grave tone.」

BORDEN:「Everything's going to be okay. It is only then that he notices the HAND ON HER SHOULDER. He rises to come face-to-face with Lord Caldlow-
 You must be Lord- -who is ROBERT ANGIER. Risen from the dead.」
narrator:ANGIER
 ENGLISH ACCENT) Caldlow. Yes, I am. I always have been. Borden STARES at Angier.
BORDEN:「I saw you die. Angier just SMILES.」
Robert Angier:「They flatter you with all those chains, Alfred. Don't they know you can't escape without your little rubber ball? Borden says nothing.
 All I wanted to do was prove that I was the better magician. But you couldn't leave me alone.」
BORDEN:「You were always afraid to get your hands dirty... (looks down at his」
narrator:JESS) Not anymore.
Robert Angier:「No. Not anymore. And I win. Because no one cares about the man in the box, the man who disappears.」

Robert Angier:「I know how hard it is to have someone so precious taken away, don't I」

Robert Angier:「Borden? But you can't take her with you know, can you? She'll be looked after. Good-bye, Professor.」

Robert Angier:「Your secret.」

Robert Angier:「You always were the better magician, Borden. We both know that. HE TEARS the envelope in half. Then again. And again...」

Robert Angier:「But whatever your secret was, you'll have to agree-」

Robert Angier:「」

Robert Angier:「For God's sake, Borden.」

Robert Angier:「Hello, Cutter.」

Robert Angier:「I magician never reveals his secrets.」

Robert Angier:「Good night, Jess.」

Robert Angier:「She needs looking after-」

Robert Angier:「You don't have to. I'm going to make sure the machine. is never used again.」

Robert Angier:「My theatre. It belongs with the Prestige materials.」

narrator:INT. ABANDONED THEATRE -- NIGHT
 Angier and Cutter load the crate onto a platform suspended by a rope. Angier pulls open the two metal doors sunk into the floor. Cutter begins turning a WHICH, lowering the crate into the HOLE. Angier indicates a pile of bricks and a bag of sand.
CUTTER:「I'm bringing this over after we're done.」
Robert Angier:「Cautions as ever, Cutter. No one's going to use the place. I own it.」
narrator:INT. CELLAR, ABANDONED THEATRE -- EVENING
 Angier slowly climbs down a ladder from the hole to join Cutter in the darkness below. Cutter is standing next to the platform and the crate. The only night comes from a LANTERN Angier is carrying. We can see only a small flicker of the high moldy walls of the cellar, but it is a large open space.
CUTTER:「No room left- you couldn't have acommodated 100 performances.」

Robert Angier:「It's a good thing I retired early then. Angier puts the lattern and his cane on the lif of the crate and the two men heft ir off the platform.
 We'll put it down the end. Angier and Cutter move into the darkness with the crate. From the small pool of light afforded by the lattern, we can see that they are navigating their way through a large space filled with LARGE GLASS BOXES. They arrive at the end and set the crate down.」

Robert Angier:「Cutter, I tried not to involve you. Cutter looks at Angier. Nods. Then disappears into darkness.」
narrator:INT. ABANDONED THEATRE -- MOMENTS LATER
 Cutter comes across the stage and up through the auditorium. Fallon is coming in the other direction. As they pass they nod gravely at each other.
 INT. DEATH CHAMBER, NEWGATE PRISON -- DAY
 Borden is held in place by the trapdoor by two warders. The HANGMAN walks up behind him and attaches a NOOSE to the chain hanging above Borden. He slips the other end of the noose over Borden's neck. Positions it under Borden's jaw.
 INT. CELLAR, ABANDONED THEATRE -- CONTINUOUS
 Angier is alone bather in the lgiht of the lantern. He turns to the nearest glass box and smoothes a hand along its face.
 ANGIER
 WHISPER) No one cares about the man in the box. Behind him, a NOISE.
Robert Angier:「」

narrator:INT. CELLAR, ABANDONED THEATRE -- NIGHT
 Angier PEERS down the row of glass boxes with the lantern.
 ANGIER
 TENSE)
 CUTTER? Angier FREEZES. He can hear a small THUD, THUD, THUD getting closer, approaching from the darkness... Angier FLINCHES as a RUBBER BALL bounces into the light- Angier DROPS his cane to CATCH the ball. He turns it around in his hands, confused. Light EXPLODES around him as a GUNSHOT rings out. Angier stands for a moment, confused, staring at the ball, then COLLAPSES to the ground, clutching at his stomach. Fallon's BOWLER HAT breaks into the circle of light. he is holding a smoking pistol... Angier drops the ball and it rolls across the floor, coming to rest at Fallon's feet. But it is not Fallon's gloved hand that picks up the ball- -it is a MUTILATED HAND, WITH 2 1/2 FINGERS MISSING. Angier
 LOOKS UP:
 ALFRED BORDEN REMOVES THE BOWLER HAT AND TAKES A BOW.
Robert Angier:「」
narrator:WEAK) You- you died. Borden shakes his head. Realization sweeps over Angier like a nightmare.

Robert Angier:「A brother. A Twin.」
narrator:INT. BASEMENT -- CONTINUOUS -- FLASHBACK
 Fallon DROPS into the coffin. As fallon stares up at us, WE
 SEE, FOR THE FIRST TIME, SOMETHING FAMILIAR IN HIS FACE --
 FALLON IS REALLY BORDEN IN DISGUISE.
Robert Angier:「You were Fallon. The whole time... Fallon/Borden's face disappears as Cutter seals his coffin.」

Robert Angier:「Were you the one who went into the」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) -or the one who come back out?」

Robert Angier:「Cutter knew. But I told him it was too simple. Too easy.」

narrator:He checks the placemen of the chisel against his own mutilated fingers, adjust the chisel's position, them picks up the hammer.
BORDEN:「V.O.) Nothing easy about two men sharing one life. The second brother SWIGS from a gin bottle, then BITES down a padded stick as the first brother BRINGS DOWN THE HAMMER-」
narrator:INT. CELLAR, ABANDONED THEATRE -- EVENING
 Borden stares at his mutilated hand clasping the rubber ball.
Robert Angier:「What about Olivia? And your wife?」
BORDEN:「We each loved one of them. We each had half a full life. Enough for us, but not for them. Borden puts the ball in his pocket. Tears in his eyes.
 Sacrifice, Robert- that's the price of a good trick. Borden looks down at Angier with contempt.
 But you wouldn't know anything about that, would you? Angier is dying. He opens his mouth to talk, but his voice is so wak that Borden has to stoop to hear him.」
narrator:ANGIER
 VERY QUIET) I've made sacrificies.
BORDEN:「It takes nothing to steal someone else's work.」
Robert Angier:「It takes everything.」

Robert Angier:「It took courage to climb into that machine every night...」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Not knowing if I'd be the Prestige....」

Robert Angier:「V.O.) Or the man in the box...」

Robert Angier:「Nothing? You never understood, id you? Why we did this?」

Robert Angier:「It was the look on their faced.」
