narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 1 The RUNNING MAN leans down as if to assist, but instead just picks up the smoker's broken umbrella and studies it. The MAN in the deerstalker hat's eyes widen as he recognizes his famous assailant.
 MAN Sherlock Holmes?!
 SHERLOCK HOLMES offers the handle of the umbrella to the MAN, hauls him to his feet and hands back his broken umbrella.
Sherlock Holmes:「My apologies. Send the bill to John Watson, 221B Baker Street.」

narrator:INT. CATHEDRAL CRYPTS - ENTRANCE - NIGHT
 5
 Holmes enters through the door and stands at the top of a stairwell. He takes a moment to recover; he's fit, but not as fit as he used to be.
 Holmes descends the stairwell to a door and a spiral staircase beyond it. He stops at the doorway and peers round the corner.
 A lantern glow ascends the spiral stairway towards Holmes. Holmes withdraws into the shadows behind the door. A BOWLER-HATTED MAN ascends the stairs, carrying the lantern and a gun.
 He peers behind the door and holds the lantern up to the shadows, but does not see Holmes, who has pulled his black jacket up to conceal his face. The man swings the lantern away again. He peers about, confused.
 We see Holmes' eyes from the shadows, as he lowers his jacket and thinks through his plan of attack.
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) Head cocked to the left, partial deafness in right ear. First point of attack.」

narrator:PRE-VISUALIZATION IN VARI-SPEED
 FOCUS ON the spot behind the man's right ear, just at the top of the jaw -- the most vulnerable point. Holmes launches a hammer blow, and we ramp from 24 fps to 400 fps (ULTRA SLOW MOTION) as he makes contact. The man's head is thrown back as he spins round.
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) Then throat, paralyze vocal chords, stop screaming.」
narrator:BACK TO 24 fps. The man's mouth opens to cry out. We RAMP BACK UP TO 400 fps as his Adam's Apple is struck with a precision karate chop, strangling his scream.
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) Stink of alcohol, heavy drinker -- knuckles to liver.」

narrator:POV - BOTTOM OF THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE
 Another bowler-hatted THUG approaches the bottom of the staircase. He has seen the lantern light. He draws his gun and approaches. Holmes places the lantern on the post at the bottom of the bannister, ducks down into the shadows.
 THUG What's goin' on, John?
 When he gets no answer, the THUG points his gun to where we saw Holmes hide.
 But Holmes appears from the shadows behind the THUG, reaches around him, grabs his gun hand and pistol-whips him twice with his own gun, dropping him.
 Holmes extracts a cigar from the Thug's top pocket and sniffs it appreciatively.
Sherlock Holmes:「Hhhmm, good cigar. Who do you work for?」
narrator:He jams the cigar in his own top pocket, picks up the man's bowler and proceeds on, further down into the crypts.
 OMITTED
 INT. CATHEDRAL CRYPTS - BALCONY - NIGHT
 7
 TWO HARD MEN in bowler hats stand guard.
 CUT TO: (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 7 ANOTHER ANGLE
 Holmes surveys the scene AT A DISTANCE, out of sight. Eyes alive with intelligence, processing angles when --
 A HEAVY HAND falls on his shoulder.
 PULL BACK to reveal --
 The following exchange in whispers.)

Sherlock Holmes:「Watson.
 Perfect timing.」
WATSON:「Nice hat.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Just got it.
 Where's Lestrade?」
WATSON:「Getting his troops in formation. Is that your blood or theirs?」
Sherlock Holmes:「I don't know.
 It's an old shirt.」
WATSON:「You left this behind.」
narrator:Watson hands him his pistol.
 Holmes looks at it with distaste, doesn't take it.
Sherlock Holmes:「Knew I'd forgotten something. Thought I'd left the stove on.」
WATSON:「You did.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Right.
 Shall we?」

narrator:INT. CATHEDRAL CRYPTS - BALCONY - NIGHT
 9
 Thugs dispatched, Holmes and Watson look down and see a chilling sight.
 A WOMAN IN WHITE LIES INSIDE A CRUDELY-PAINTED PENTACLE (five-sided figure), lit with candles at each corner. Her eyes roll back in her head, trance-like. A sword has been placed at her feet.
 A HOODED FIGURE KNEELS INSIDE A DOUBLE CIRCLE next to the pentacle. This is LORD BLACKWOOD. We do not yet see his face.
 ANOTHER HOODED FIGURE stands on the edge of the ceremony, shrouded in shadow. We do not see his face.
 Suddenly, the woman rises up like a broken puppet, as if pulled to her feet by invisible hands.
 Some kind of ritual is about to climax.
 Holmes and Watson head down, fast, not caring if they make a noise or not. Their footsteps echo.
 A
 9A INT. CATHEDRAL CRYPTS The second hooded figure moves back and melts into the shadows.
 Still kneeling, still hooded, Blackwood chants softly, Latin incantation repeating and repeating.
 ON THE WOMAN as her lips start to move in time with the incantation. This is spooky, real, powerful stuff.
 Holmes and Watson leap from the stairs to Blackwood's level.
 Blackwood simply ignores them.
 The Latin incantation never stops.
 Holmes is closer to the girl, Watson closer to Blackwood.
WATSON:「The girl. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:A
 CONTINUED:
 9A The girl bends with alarming and mechanical suddenness, picks up the sword and turns it on herself, ready to plunge the point into her heart.
 Holmes lunges, grabs the woman's arm, disarms her and pulls her out of the pentacle. She collapses.
 Simultaneously and eerily the candles extinguish and a rush of air departs the tunnel.
 Blackwood throws back his hood. We finally see his face. His eyes are intense, he is tapped into something dark and cruel.
 Holmes and Watson are shocked at his identity.
WATSON:「Lord Blackwood?! Blackwood applauds softly, strangely.」
BLACKWOOD:「Well done, Holmes. And Watson as well.」
narrator:Watson raises his gun, trains it on Blackwood.
WATSON:「Stay right there.」
narrator:Blackwood raises his hands in front of him, almost mockingly.
BLACKWOOD:「Tell me, doctor, as a medical man, how did you like my work? (beat) The fifth one was so scrawny, it was over before I'd finished the first incision.」
narrator:That's more than Watson can take.
 He moves in to pistol- whip Blackwood --
 is stopped suddenly by Holmes' hand grabbing his collar.
Sherlock Holmes:「No.」

narrator:Watson struggles forward against Holmes' grip.
Sherlock Holmes:「Look.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 A
 CONTINUED: (2)
 9A Holmes seems to be pointing at Blackwood.
 Watson looks, sees nothing.
Sherlock Holmes:「Look.」
narrator:Watson looks, and sees it and his eyes flare wide.
 INCHES FROM WATSON'S RIGHT EYE is the needle-pointed end of a QUIVERING PIECE OF HIGH-TENSILE WIRE, almost invisible --
 the other end held between Blackwood's hands.
 A really nasty concealed weapon.
 One more step and Watson gets impaled in the eye.
BLACKWOOD:「What a shame.
 That would've been fun.」
narrator:We hear heavy boots on the balcony, as Lestrade and his men finally appear.
 POLICEMEN flood the area.
Sherlock Holmes:「Impeccable timing, Lestrade.」
LESTRADE:「vis Blackwood) Is that -- ?」
WATSON:「It is.」
Sherlock Holmes:「re: girl) We've gone for the doctor... (re: Blackwood) And one for the rope.」
LESTRADE:「You should've waited for my help.」

Sherlock Holmes:「If I had, you'd be cleaning up a corpse and chasing a rumor. Besides, the girl's parents hired me, not the Yard. (a wry smile) I can't imagine why they thought you'd need any assistance.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A
 CONTINUED: (3)
 9A Lestrade turns, frustrated. He watches his men yank Blackwood out of his double circle, put chains on him, while others carry the girl away on a stretcher. She's still mouthing the incantation.
 Lestrade eyes the double circle, the pentacle, shakes his head, not understanding them.
 Grudgingly, reluctantly, hating himself for needing to, he turns to Holmes.
LESTRADE:「What do you make of that?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Some kind of ceremony. Five girls killed beneath cathedrals at the height of the full moon. (indicating) The double circle's for his own protection.」
LESTRADE:「London will breathe a sigh of relief --」
WATSON:「at the excellent work of Scotland Yard. As usual.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Bravo, Lestrade. Have a cigar.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (3)
 14 WATSON
 ... and your friend, you've been
 in this room for two weeks. I
 insist you get out of here.
Sherlock Holmes:「There's nothing of interest to me
 out there, on earth, at all.」
WATSON:「So, you have nothing to do?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Nothing.」
WATSON:「Then you're free this evening.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Absolutely.」
narrator:WATSON
 For dinner.
 HOLMES
 Wonderful.
 WATSON
 The Royale.
 HOLMES
 My favorite.
WATSON:「Mary's coming.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Not available.」
WATSON:「You're meeting her, Holmes.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Have you proposed yet?」
WATSON:「I'm still looking for the right ring.」
narrator:A little smile from Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes:「Then it's not official.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (4)
 14 WATSON It's happening, like it or not. Half past eight. The Royale.
 The dog wakes up and runs out.
WATSON:「And wear a jacket.」
narrator:Watson exits, leaving Holmes alone in his own chaos. For the first time, we see a hint of fear in his eyes.
 CUT TO:
 INT. THE ROYALE - DINING ROOM
 15
 Holmes sits in the center of a booth waiting for Watson to arrive. He is quite uncomfortable in this setting.
 WE SEE HIS OBSERVATIONS -- he picks up little pieces of information from the other guests. He notices the details on a pair of gentleman's cufflinks, the name on a bottle of wine, a surreptitious argument between waiters. It all becomes quite overbearing.
 And then Watson and Mary arrive, talking, intent on each other -- surprised when they realize Holmes is already there.
WATSON:「Holmes!
 You're early. HOLMES Fashionably.
 May I present Miss Mary Morstan.」
narrator:Holmes looks at MARY MORSTAN -- looks again. She's beautiful, 30s, and clearly a woman worth marrying. Holmes stands. She extends her hand.
Sherlock Holmes:「My pleasure. For the life of me I don't know why it's taken him so long to get us properly introduced.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 15 MARY They can seem a bit far-fetched sometimes, though. Making these grand assumptions out of tiny details.
Sherlock Holmes:「livening up) Oh, no no. The little details are by far the most important. Take Watson...」
MARY:「I intend to.」
narrator:Watson likes that, Holmes less so -- a forced chuckle.
Sherlock Holmes:「see that walking-stick? A rare African snakewood hiding a blade of high-tensile steel. A few were awarded to veterans of the Afghan war, so I can assume he's a decorated soldier. Strong, brave, born to be a man of action. And neat, like all military men. Then I check his pockets... ah. A stub from a boxing match. Now I can infer he's a bit of a gambler. (a wink) I'd keep an eye on that, by the way.」
WATSON:「Those days are behind me.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Yes, right behind you. (leaning in to Mary) He's cost us the rent more than once.」
narrator:Mary laughs.
MARY:「With all due respect, Mr. Holmes, you know him. But what about a perfect stranger? What can you tell about me?」

narrator:Holmes and Watson exchange a glance -- not a good idea.
WATSON:「I don't think that's necessary --」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 A. 15
 CONTINUED: (3)
 15 HOLMES Yes, I doubt --
MARY:「No, it'd be wonderful.
 I insist.」
Sherlock Holmes:「You insist? (at Watson) She insisted. (instantly) You're a governess.」
MARY:「Well done.」
WATSON:「Yes, well done. So shall we --」
Sherlock Holmes:「Your student's a boy of 8.」
MARY:「Charlie's 7, actually.」
narrator:Watson's getting nervous, reaches for the wine.
 Holmes stops him.
Sherlock Holmes:「It's breathing. (back to Mary) Then he's tall for his age.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (4)
 15 HOLMES He flicked ink at you today.
MARY:「Is there ink on my face?」
narrator:The WAITER appears.
WATSON:「There's nothing wrong with your face.」
narrator:WAITER The gentleman has already ordered for himself. (to Watson) What would madam care for this evening?
 Watson gives Holmes a hard look:
 that's a bit much.
WATSON:「Give us a few minutes, please.」
narrator:He shakes his head, pours wine for all.
Sherlock Holmes:「There are two drops on your ear... India blue's nearly impossible to wash off, anyway. A very impetuous act by the boy, but you're too experienced to react rashly -- which is why the lady you work for lent you that necklace. It's from Asprey's, flawless, not the gems of a governess. (beat) However, the jewels you're not wearing tell us rather more.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (5)
 15 WATSON Holmes.
 Both Watson and Mary scorch Holmes with their eyes. Holmes pauses... pauses, then:
Sherlock Holmes:「You were engaged.」
narrator:Holmes' mind has gotten away from him.
 He begins talking faster, intensely focused, manic.
Sherlock Holmes:「The ring is gone. But the lighter skin where it sat suggests you spent some time abroad wearing it proudly.」
narrator:As Holmes talks, Watson gets up, moves to help Mary to her feet. They're leaving.
Sherlock Holmes:「Or at least until someone informed you of its true and rather modest worth, at which point you broke off the engagement and returned to England for better prospects. A doctor perhaps.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (6)
 15 WATSON Well done, old man.
 and Watson goes with her.
 Holmes lets the wine drip down over him.
Sherlock Holmes:「She's lovely.」

narrator:CLOSEUP ON A BEAUTIFUL WOMAN
 Early thirties, a look of pure intrigue in her eyes and a slight smile on her lips as she watches the detective.
 Holmes' POV returns to normal when he sees her, the sound floods back into the room.
 McMurdo senses his opponent's lapse in concentration and steps on Holmes' foot, tramping him and --
 He knocks Holmes down with a thunderous right.
 Holmes rolls over, stands, shakes his head to clear the cobwebs. He looks for the woman. She's gone. He turns back to McMurdo, smiles.
Sherlock Holmes:「Well done.
 Thank you.」
narrator:Holmes begins walking away.
 McMURDO Oi!
 We ain't done here.
Sherlock Holmes:「walking away) Not done. Finished. And as I said, thank you, it was most pleasurable.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A-17 CONTINUED: (2)
 15A-17 Face twisted in disgust, McMurdo strides forward and SPITS CONTEMPTUOUSLY at Holmes, catching him on the back of the head. The crowd falls silent.
 Holmes stops.
 Feels the back of his head, smells his hand.
Sherlock Holmes:「Hm.
 Plymouth gin.」

narrator:INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB - BARE-KNUCKLE BOXING RING - NIGHT
 21
 The fighting is over and the pub is closing. Only a few people remain cleaning up, mopping the beer and blood. Watson enters fast, looks around, and moves upstairs.
 INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB - ATTIC Watson walks down a dingy hallway towards a door. With a look of resignation, he opens the door to see Holmes sitting alone in the sterile, barely furnished room.
 Holmes faces the corner, playing scales on his VIOLIN. On the table next to him, an upside down BEER STEIN and an assortment of prescription medicine bottles.
 Watson approaches, sees Holmes has bloodshot eyes from lack of sleep.
 Watson picks one of the medicine bottles which is open. WATSON You know this is for eye surgery?
Sherlock Holmes:「I find that it lifts my spirits.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 22 WATSON Let's go. Lestrade wants you at Pentonville Prison.
Sherlock Holmes:「That's your job, not mine.」

narrator:EXT. LONDON - DAWN
 23
 Watson and Holmes ride in a cab, passing familiar landmarks as the city comes to life. They sit in silence, tension hanging between them. Finally Holmes grabs Watson's bag, rummages around and pulls out a clean white shirt.
 Watson looks out the window, frustrated. He sees THE HALF-CONSTRUCTED MASS OF TOWER BRIDGE. Near ground level, workers take down a large BLACKWOOD STEEL sign.
Sherlock Holmes:「Look at that structure. What has it been? Five years' work already? Are you aware that is the first combination of bascule and suspension bridge. Very innovative.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 23
Sherlock Holmes:「Oh, I have your cut from last night, by the way. You weren't there so I laid your customary bet --」
narrator:Silence.
 Holmes takes off his shirt.
Sherlock Holmes:「You're right... I'll keep it with your check book, locked safely away in my drawer.」
narrator:Silence.
 Holmes pulls on the clean shirt.
Sherlock Holmes:「The opera house is featuring Don Giovanni and I could easily procure two tickets if you had some cultural inclination this evening.」
narrator:Silence.
Sherlock Holmes:「You have the grand gift of silence, Watson. It makes you quite invaluable as a companion.」
narrator:Watson punches him square in the face.
WATSON:「And your grand gift is the uncanny ability to demoralize people. I was aware she'd been engaged. She told me. Holmes rubs his jaw.」
Sherlock Holmes:「So that's a `no' to the opera then?」
narrator:Watson's steaming.
 Holmes puts on his vest.
WATSON:「That's my waistcoat.」
Sherlock Holmes:「It's too small for you.」

narrator:INT. PENTONVILLE PRISON - CORRIDOR - DAWN
 26
 A pale, nervous GUARD leads Holmes down the shadowy corridor. All the cells are now EMPTY.
Sherlock Holmes:「Where are all the other prisoners?」
narrator:GUARD We had to move `em, sir, otherwise we were going to have a riot on our hands. There's something about him... it's like he can get inside your head.
 Holmes can see how spooked the Guard is.
Sherlock Holmes:「I'm sure I can find my own way from here, if you have other duties to attend to.」
narrator:GUARD Much obliged, sir. Thank you, thank you.
 The Guard high-tails it out of there.
 INT. PENTONVILLE PRISON - BLACKWOOD'S CELL - DAY Holmes approaches Blackwood's cell, strolling insouciantly. No way this creep's getting to him. In the shadows he can barely make out Blackwood, who's reading aloud to himself. Holmes listens, getting closer. BLACKWOOD QUOTE from Revelations tbd...
 Blackwood pauses, turns, sees Holmes.
 They share a smile -- two heavyweights sizing each other up.
Sherlock Holmes:「Love what you've done with the place.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 27 HOLMES A small point of concern.
BLACKWOOD:「How can I help?」
Sherlock Holmes:「I'd already followed the murders with some interest and while my heart went out to the families of the victims, I couldn't but notice a criminal mastery in the stroke of your brush --」
BLACKWOOD:「You're too kind.」
Sherlock Holmes:「However, by comparison, your work in the crypt was akin to a finger painting.」
narrator:Suddenly, Blackwood is right at the bars, close to Holmes.
BLACKWOOD:「So now you're curious as to whether there's a larger game afoot, and that's why you're really here.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Actually, my friend will pronounce you dead shortly and I thought I might keep him company.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 27 HOLMES My only wish is that I'd caught you earlier. I might have spared five lives.
BLACKWOOD:「Those lives were a necessity, a sacrifice. Five otherwise meaningless creatures called to serve a greater purpose.」
Sherlock Holmes:「I wonder if they'd let Watson and I dissect your brain -- after you're hanged, of course. I'd wager there's some deformity that would be scientifically significant. Then you would serve a greater purpose, too.」
BLACKWOOD:「Mr. Holmes, you must widen your gaze. I'm concerned you underestimate the gravity of coming events. (beat) For you and I are bound on a journey that will twist the very fabric of nature. (beat) I sense fragility beneath your mask of logic, and it worries me. Steel your mind, Holmes, I need you.」
narrator:Holmes steps back, shakes his head.
Sherlock Holmes:「I must say, you've come a long way down from the House of Lords.」
BLACKWOOD:「But I will rise again.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Bon voyage, Blackwood.」

narrator:INT. PENTONVILLE PRISON - CORRIDOR - MORNING
 28
 Holmes walks down the corridor, meets Lestrade and a PRIEST. The place is bustling with cops and officials.
LESTRADE:「What did he want?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Nothing.」
narrator:Holmes looks at the priest.
Sherlock Holmes:「Don't think you're needed, Father. Not for this one.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A. 30
 CONTINUED: (4)
 30 She stands and pulls out a large bag of coins.
Sherlock Holmes:「Keep your money. I didn't say I'd take the case.」

narrator:INT. 221 BAKER ST. - HOLMES' APARTMENT
 35
 Holmes is washing his face in a basin on the other side of the room, completely transformed now, utterly alive. Watson approaches, very concerned, almost enraged.
WATSON:「Look at you, I can't believe you
 ran after her like a schoolboy
 again. Leaping about, all
 aflutter. Are you a masochist?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Allow me to explain.」
WATSON:「Don't you remember what she did to
 you? She turned you inside out,
 she made a proper idiot of you.
 I'm sorry, you were going to
 explain something...」
Sherlock Holmes:「Thank you, I --」
WATSON:「I know, instead of just being
 tricked into being a witness at
 her wedding like last time --」
Sherlock Holmes:「I don't believe --」

narrator:ANGLE ON HOLMES
Sherlock Holmes:「Now, that's the Irene I know.」

narrator:INT. 221 BAKER ST. - HOLMES' APARTMENTS (PRESENT)
 40
 Holmes strums one more chord on his violin, thinking.
 Irene's bag of money still sits on the table.
Sherlock Holmes:「This man intrigues me, Watson.
 He's got Adler on edge.」
WATSON:「Which is no mean feat.」
narrator:HOLMES
 She's intimidated, scared...
 WATSON
 And yet she works for him. That's
 bad money. It's nothing to do
 with me, but leave this case.
 Holmes motions to the bills.
Sherlock Holmes:「Well, I may not have a choice. A
 man has to make a living. After
 all, I'll be paying the rent
 entirely on my own.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 40 HOLMES (mumbles) What's he done now, lost his way to Scotland Yard? Watson, grab a compass. You means us.
WATSON:「Us means you.」
CONSTABLE CLARK:「It's Lord Blackwood, sir. It
 appears he's come back from the
 dead.」
narrator:WATSON
 Well that's clever seeing as how I
 pronounced him dead myself.
CONSTABLE CLARK:「A groundsman saw him walking
 through the graves, just this morning.」
WATSON:「I'll leave this one in your
 capable hands. I have tea with
 Mary and her parents this evening.」
narrator:Watson walks into his office.
Sherlock Holmes:「It is not my reputation at stake
 here.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 42 Holmes offers Lestrade his handkerchief, Lestrade waves it off.
LESTRADE:「Look at those slabs of marble -- they're half a ton each if they're a pound -- smashed outward like they were nothing.」
narrator:On second thought, Lestrade does take Holmes' handkerchief.
LESTRADE:「Explain it if you can, Holmes.」
narrator:Holmes inspects the door, checking the hinges. He notices the Blackwood CREST, and the image of a SPHINX.
Sherlock Holmes:「And the coffin?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (4)
 42 But no one moves. The cops pass a CROWBAR around as if it were red-hot. Watson's had enough. He marches forward --
 snatches the crowbar away, jams it under the lid and levers it off with a slow, eerie groan.
 Holmes and Lestrade move forward, the cops move backward.
 The coffin is filled with EARTH, overflowing. They brush away a layer of dirt, to reveal... A DEAD BODY in the coffin. The body is a much smaller man than Blackwood, in everyday clothes, with red hair.
LESTRADE:「That's not Blackwood.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Now that we have a firm grasp of the obvious...」
narrator:Watson opens his forensic kit, disturbed. Vials, silver tools. He takes a CALIPER, begins examining the body.
WATSON:「Lividity is late stage. Diptera deposits are approximately -- (measuring) -- three quarters of an inch, putting the time of death at ten to twelve hours ago.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Inspector, may I see your pen?」
narrator:Lestrade hands over a nice fountain pen, still stunned. Holmes takes the pen and pries open the corpse's mouth, revealing: two missing teeth in the man's jaw.

WATSON:「Missing two incisors in the upper jaw... (a look at Holmes) Adler's midget.」
narrator:Holmes spots something glinting in the man's dirt-filled pocket. He uses the pen to fish out: a POCKET WATCH.
Sherlock Holmes:「All yours, Inspector.」
narrator:Holmes hands the pen back to Lestrade. Lestrade looks at it with dismay, takes it in Holmes' handkerchief -- a small measure of revenge.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (5)
 42 Holmes and Watson begin walking away from the crypt. Lestrade follows, anxious. Holmes shows him the dusty pocket watch.
Sherlock Holmes:「Scratches around the keyhole where the watch is wound. Most drunks are the same, and pawnbrokers scratch the ticket number and their initials inside the lid. This one has five, so the owner --」

narrator:GROUNDSKEEPER (O.S.) He was walking.
 They all stop, suddenly. The old Groundskeeper stands in front of them, ready to unburden himself.
 GROUNDSKEEPER (quivering voice) He was walking but his feet didn't touch the ground. And I'm not daft, I know what I saw and I know Lord Blackwood. He was as alive as you or me. It's not right. It's not natural. (turns, leaves) Our Father Who art in heaven... (etc.)
 All three men watch the Groundskeeper go. A sudden gust of wind moans eerily. They all want to get the hell out of there.
Sherlock Holmes:「Now the game is afoot, Watson.」

narrator:EXT. LONDON STREET - DAY
 51
 Holmes stands in the middle of the street contentedly observing humanity. Watson ENTERS FRAME and hands Holmes a bundle wrapped in newspaper.
WATSON:「I fail to see how these fish and chips are different from the three other places we passed along the way.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Trust me. (CONTINUED)」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 51 HOLMES (mouth full, near indecipherable) Never theorize before you have data. Invariably, you end up twisting facts to suit theories, instead of theories to suit facts. Adler's midget is the key to this.
 Holmes pulls out a JEWELER'S LOUP, screws it into his eye, and flips Reordon's watch open. He examines the lid.
Sherlock Holmes:「Hmm... scratches around the keyhole, what does that tell you?」
WATSON:「The owner was most likely a drunk. Each time he wound the watch his hand would slip, hence the scratches.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Very good, Watson! You've developed considerable powers of your own.」
narrator:Watson looks quite chuffed.
Sherlock Holmes:「Let's see now, there are several sets of initials scored into the lid.」
WATSON:「Pawnbroker's marks.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Excellent.」
narrator:Watson looks extremely pleased with himself until they turn a corner into a street where EVERY SECOND SHOP IS A PAWN SHOP. His face falls.
Sherlock Holmes:「The most recent is M.H...」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A. 51
 CONTINUED: (3)
 51 HOLMES Oh my Lord, here we are. They should give us an address.
 WE SEE MADDISON &amp; HAIG, PAWNBROKERS, RESPECTABLE, DISCREET, ahead of them there on Bow Street.
WATSON:「There's one thing you've missed. On the watch.」
Sherlock Holmes:「I think not.」
WATSON:「The time. Which leads me to deduce that I'm already late for my appointment with Mary. You remember, the one I was leaving for before you talked me into coming to dig up dead bodies with you.」
narrator:A GYPSY PALM READER approaches Watson as he turns to leave.
PALM READER:「Reckon your future, sir?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Perhaps we do need a little help from the beyond.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 B. 51
 CONTINUED: (4)
 51 PALM READER (wincing) I see madness. A man driven out of his mind by a malign force.
 Watson looks at Holmes.
PALM READER:「I see a letter... the letter M... another M... Mary? You will be married... I see... I see... (horrified) Patterned table clothes, china figurines, lace doilies...」
narrator:Watson snatches his hand away.
WATSON:「You think you are clever don't you?」
narrator:Holmes feigns innocence.
PALM READER:「She turns to fat...」
WATSON:「Enough.」
narrator:The Palm Reader looks at Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes:「to Watson) Do you have any changes?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (5)
 51 HOLMES It's the most honest prediction old Flora has made in years. And you know it yourself, Watson. That is precisely the reason you can't find a suitable ring. You're terrified of a life without the thrill of the macabre, as well you should be.
 Holmes swallows the last of his cod and casts the wrapping aside, pleased with himself.
WATSON:「Do you still have my cut from the fight?」
narrator:Holmes digs into a pocket, produces a wad of coins.
Sherlock Holmes:「Why, do you --」
narrator:Watson snatches the money, storms into Madison and Haig.
 Holmes is confused until he spots a sign in the window: "Large selection of engagement rings for every wallet."
 Holmes starts to look a bit nervous. As he follows Watson, he is intercepted by the Palm Reader who grabs his arm.
PALM READER:「I seen something in his hand. Darkness and great pain. Mortal peril. Warn your friend, he's not safe.」

narrator:Even Holmes is taken aback by this.
 EXT. LONDON EAST END - MINUTES LATER Holmes and Watson move down the street, the pawnshop behind them. Now Watson is smiling, and Holmes is not. Watson is beaming at: an ENGAGEMENT RING in a box.
WATSON:「Not bad, eh?」
narrator:Holmes turns away, looks down at the TICKET he got from the pawnshop: an ADDRESS.
Sherlock Holmes:「Reordon's lodgings should be right around this bend. Here we are... (CONTINUED)」
narrator:A. 52
 CONTINUED:
 52 He slows, looks up at a dark, dingy LODGING HOUSE.
 Some windows are boarded up.
Sherlock Holmes:「Looks promising. And possibly dangerous. Oh, well, give my regards to Mary.」

narrator:INT. LODGING HOUSE
 54
 Holmes winds his way up a twisting flight of creaky stairs, finds a door with scratches on the keyhole.
 Holmes takes out his knife and goes to work on the lock. It is fiddly. It takes him a while. He kneels to get a better angle with the knife.
 CRACK! Watson's boot flashes past him as he KICKS the door off its hinges. Off Holmes' pleased reaction, he gestures them inside.
WATSON:「I can spare ten minutes.」
narrator:INT. REORDON'S ROOMS - DAY The squalid doorway opens into a series of dark rooms. Watson lights a lamp which reveals details of an interior that stops them both in their tracks:
 From floor to ceiling, every available inch is covered in writing, biblical Latin and Hebrew. Scrawled-on paper and pages are tacked to walls and carved into the plaster, crucifixes punctuate the yards of text and collage, strange pagan charms hang from the ceiling.
Sherlock Holmes:「He clearly felt something was coming to get him.」

narrator:INT. REORDON'S LAB
 56
 Instantly, Watson covers his nose with a handkerchief.
WATSON:「reeling) Bloody hell...」
narrator:The room is stacked with an alarming amount of scientific and biological paraphernalia. Some of it gives off a distinctly electrical hum. Ungodly fragments of limbs and matter float in jars.
Sherlock Holmes:「inhaling deeply, loving it) Ammonium sulfate.」
narrator:In the center of the room, something ROTTING. An experiment generating a massive stench, a seething cloud of flies. Holmes and Watson step closer to see:
 DEAD FROGS. Eyes opened impossibly wide, their bodies frozen in strange contortions, as if mid-death-rattle.
 Holmes moves around the room, sniffing like a morbid perfumer. Watson does his best not to gag.
Sherlock Holmes:「mumbles) Phosphorous... Formaldehyde... Hemlock...」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 56 Holmes shuffles a few bottles, tosses one to Watson. Watson catches it, starts pouring the acid, another chemical on a clean sheet of paper.
 Holmes senses something, moves into the next room.
 He stops at an open window, smells the CURTAINS:
Sherlock Holmes:「Irene was here.」
narrator:Watson presses the chemical-soaked paper onto the burnt paper.
WATSON:「Why would she hire you to find him, if she planned to do the job herself?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Maybe it's not the man she's after, but something else. Something he was working on? WATSON Ferrocyanide. Sucks the iron right out of the ink. Long as it's not too burnt...」
narrator:Watson keeps rubbing the paper together, puts it by the lantern. Slowly, faint words APPEAR on the blank page. Ghostly chemistry. Watson sees the crest is Blackwood's.
WATSON:「He worked for Blackwood.」
narrator:Holmes gets a whiff of something, raises an eyebrow.
 He starts walking back to the other room.
Sherlock Holmes:「There's one odor I can't put my finger on. Sweet, almost like perfume... or sugar.... (stops, sniffs) Barley sugar.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 58 They are followed by DREDGER, a huge man, just shy of seven feet tall and pushing 400 pounds, slightly deformed, who follows them into the room. He sucks on a twisty stick of barley sugar (Victorian hard candy).
 They stop, surprised to see Holmes and Watson.
 Holmes' eyes widen at the giant.
Sherlock Holmes:「Hello, gentlemen.」
narrator:Dredger is deadpan.
 DREDGER Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes:「Let me guess -- you're here to extinguish any connection between the man who lived here and the man you work for? Curious you'd still be running errands for a dead man.」
narrator:DREDGER (smiles) You do like to talk.
 The two thugs step toward Holmes and Watson.
Sherlock Holmes:「You take them, I'll handle Mr. Sweet tooth.」

narrator:INT. LONDON JAIL - MORNING
 67
 The next morning. A giant holding cell where every shade and aspect of Victorian villainy is corralled.
 Holmes wakes up on a bench after a peaceful night's sleep. Watson sits next to him, exhausted, bloodshot eyes. He's reading his notebook, making the odd change here and there.
 Holmes looks up and sees Watson staring at him, shaking his head.
WATSON:「I haven't slept all night. I deserve this... I clearly deserve it. How could I ever be so deluded as to believe I could meet Mary's parents for tea once I let myself be talked into going with you. Now of course I'm in jail.」
narrator:Holmes tries to wiggle his fingers which causes him enough pain that he decides to bind them with Irene's handkerchief.
Sherlock Holmes:「theatrically indignant) You're not implying that I am responsible for our current situation are you, Watson? We were set upon, man, it was self- defense.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 67 WATSON Why else would I continually allow myself to be led into situations where you're deliberately withholding your intentions from me?
Sherlock Holmes:「You've never complained about my methods before.」
WATSON:「I'm not complaining... I never complain... I never complain about your violin playing at three in the morning, your mess, your lack of hygiene, your stealing my clothes, your setting our home on fire!」
Sherlock Holmes:「That was an accident...」
narrator:Watson challenges him with a look.
Sherlock Holmes:「The first time WAS an accident...」
narrator:BIG MAN (O.S.) Remember me, boys? Put me away for robbery a few years back?
 Holmes turns and comes face-to-face with a dangerous- looking man who has a few conspicuous WARTS on his face.
Sherlock Holmes:「Ah, Mr. Brownlee. The fifteenth most dangerous man in London.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A. 67
 CONTINUED: (2)
 67 WATSON (to Holmes) Nor am I complaining about the fact that you terrorize my patients and perform outlandish experiments on my dog.
Sherlock Holmes:「Gladstone's my dog as well.
 It's in the interest of science.」
WATSON:「What I do take issue with is your ruthless campaign to sabotage my relationship with Mary.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Watson, I completely understand now. You're overtired and feeling a bit sensitive.」
narrator:Watson now turns away, completely irritated at Holmes' lack of understanding.
Sherlock Holmes:「What you need is a rest. You and I could go out to the countryside. My brother Mycroft has a small estate near Chichester. It has marvelous grounds and a beautiful folly. We could throw a lamb on the spit.」
narrator:Watson shakes his head in disbelief.
WATSON:「If I were going to the country, I would be going with my future wife --」
Sherlock Holmes:「Certainly. We should have her along. Let's get Gladstone out of the house as well.」
WATSON:「No, Holmes. Not you.
 Me and her. You're not --」

Sherlock Holmes:「Invited? Now you're not making any sense, Watson. Why would I not be invited to my own brother's country home?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 68 As the door is opened, the thug blasts out backwards, having just been battered through it by Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes:「Lestrade -- your usual impeccable timing.」
LESTRADE:「You know, in another life, you'd have made an excellent criminal.」
Sherlock Holmes:「And you, sir, an excellent policeman.」

narrator:EXT. LONDON JAIL - DAY
 69
 Holmes and Lestrade march along. Lestrade holds out a copy of the newspaper. The headline reads: "BLACKWOOD LIVES AND THE DEVIL WALKS WITH HIM! MURDERER RESURRECTED!"
LESTRADE:「Tell me you have answers.」
Sherlock Holmes:「All in good time.」
LESTRADE:「We don't have time. I've an office full of policemen hanging crosses over their desks. A public that's working itself into a frenzy... Holmes sees a dark, strange carriage waiting, door open.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Who's this?」

narrator:FADE IN:
 INT. TEMPLE OF FOUR ORDERS HEADQUARTERS
 72
 The hood is pulled off. Holmes takes in the scene, eyes flicking around the room.
 He's in a grand office where a man in his late 60s, SIR THOMAS, rises from a pile of papers.
SIR THOMAS:「Mr. Holmes, apologies for summoning you like this. I'm sure it's quite a mystery as to where you are, and who I am.」
Sherlock Holmes:「As to where I am -- I was, admittedly, lost for a moment between Charing Cross and Holborn. But I was saved by the bread shop on Saffron Hill, the only bakers to use a certain French glaze on their loaves. After that, the carriage forked left, then right, a bump over the Fleet conduit -- need I go on?」
narrator:Somewhat stunned, Sir Thomas shakes his head.
Sherlock Holmes:「As to who you are -- that took every ounce of my not- inconsiderable experience and skill... the letters on your desk are addressed to Sir Thomas Rotheram, Lord Chief Justice. That would be your official title. Who you realy are is another matter entirely.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 72 SIR THOMAS Sherlock Holmes, Ambassador Standish from America and Lord Coward, the Home Secretary.
 Holmes acknowledges them -- barely -- as they enter.
 He isn't impressed by rank.
LORD COWARD:「I suppose you already have some notion as to the -- practices of our Order?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Yes.
 They're almost interesting.」
SIR THOMAS:「Be as skeptical as you like -- but our secret systems have steered the world towards the greater good for centuries. The danger is that they can also be exploited for more nefarious purposes.」
LORD COWARD:「What some call the dark arts, or practical magic.」
narrator:Holmes looks around the room, sees FLAGS on the walls with ancient symbols, variations of the SPHINX.
STANDISH:「We know you're are a rationalist. We don't ask you to share our faith, only our fears.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Fear is the more infectious condition. (at Sir Thomas) In this case, fear of your own child.」
narrator:That shocks them rigid.
Sherlock Holmes:「Blackwood is your son, yes? You have the same colored irises -- a rare dark green, with diamond- shaped hazel flecks -- (MORE)」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (3)
 72 HOLMES (pointing at Sir Thomas' ear) -- plus identical outer ears, or pinna, which only pass down through the direct bloodline, which would make you either brothers, or, more likely, father and son.
 Stunned, the men consult silently, come to some sort of conclusion. They turn back to Holmes. Sir Thomas seems especially shaken.
SIR THOMAS:「Very few people are privy to that information, and we want to keep it that way.」
narrator:Sir Thomas opens a bureau, digs for something.
SIR THOMAS:「He was conceived during one of our rituals. His mother wasn't my wife, but she shared our beliefs. She was a powerful practitioner. Though not enough to survive giving birth to him.」
narrator:Holmes is appalled and shows it.
SIR THOMAS:「We were young. It was before we fully understood the powers we were dealing with.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Evidently.」
SIR THOMAS:「Death followed him wherever he went, from his birth to arms he made and sold. What family he had tended to... not survive. No one could prove anything of course, but we all knew --」

narrator:Sir Thomas hands Holmes a TINTYPE. A photograph from the 1860s. It's chilling: a death scene, a BODY covered by a sheet. A man who's just fallen out a window. A TEN- YEAR-OLD BOY -- young Lord Blackwood -- looks on.
SIR THOMAS:「The boy was a curse. I didn't have the courage either to take him in or to -- (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED: (4)
 72 STANDISH All this is history. The present and future are worse.
SIR THOMAS:「We've done our best to stop him ourselves, but it's not enough.」
LORD COWARD:「His power grows daily and exponentially. His resurrection is evidence of that. What he does next will be far more dangerous --」
SIR THOMAS:「he's going to raise a force that will alter the very course of our world. We need you to find him and stop him before he does.」
LORD COWARD:「We'll give you any assistance we can. As Home Secretary, I have considerable influence over the police. (beat) Name your price.」
narrator:Holmes looks at Coward with scathing disdain.
Sherlock Holmes:「One of the great benefits of my work is that I can pick and choose my clients. I'll get him, but not for you.」

narrator:Holmes stalks out -- stops at the door, turns, fixes Sir Thomas with a very bleak gaze.
Sherlock Holmes:「I have one last question, Sir Thomas.」
SIR THOMAS:「What is it?」
narrator:Holmes holds up the tintype.
Sherlock Holmes:「If the rest of his family's dead, why are you still alive?」

narrator:INT. IRENE'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY
 75
 Irene enters wearing a stunning evening dress. She pauses glancing briefly around the room before sitting at a mirrored dressing table. There's a decanter on the table next to her from which she pours herself a glass of wine.
 Then she begins removing an impressive assortment of WEAPONS hidden on her person: she pulls a stiletto from her garter, a Derringer from her waistband (which she puts down next to the wine glass). She pulls long thin needles from her hair, lets her hair down. As she continues...
 PULL BACK TO REVEAL Holmes watching her from a shadowy corner. He looks on silently until:
IRENE:「If you're going to watch me take my clothes off, Sherlock, the least you can do is help me with the buttons.」
narrator:OR ALT:
IRENE:「To watch a lady undress without her permission is a criminal offense, Sherlock, and could get you into a lot of trouble...」
narrator:They both eye the Derringer on the table.
IRENE:「So why don't you come over here and help me instead.」
narrator:Holmes approaches her somewhat tentatively and reaches for the top button on the back of her dress.
IRENE:「That's better.」
Sherlock Holmes:「You can stop looking for Reardon.」

IRENE:「I knew I could count on you. (CONTINUED)」
narrator:CONTINUED:
 75 HOLMES He was buried in Blackwood's tomb.
 Irene is momentarily taken aback then recovers.
IRENE:「Wonderful. Case closed then. Your services are no longer required.」
narrator:Unbuttoning done, Holmes steps out to confront Irene.
Sherlock Holmes:「I can't help wondering if your employer will be as content with these results? You were uncharacteristically ill at ease in his presence. Your hand was trembling, your gaze was averted. I couldn't see his face, but I spotted chalk on his lapel. A professor perhaps?」
narrator:Irene gets up, walks behind a DRESSING SCREEN.
IRENE:「behind screen) The eye patch was a nice touch.」
Sherlock Holmes:「But I've never known a professor to carry a gun, and on such a clever contraption.」
IRENE:「O.S.) Let's not argue.」
Sherlock Holmes:「We're not.」
narrator:Irene steps out, now wearing an array of Victorian undergarments. Unfairly gorgeous. The huge DIAMOND still around her neck. She moves back to the dressing table.
 Holmes won't look at her, refusing to get turned on.

Sherlock Holmes:「Tell me who you're working for and what he's after.」
IRENE:「That's nobody's business but my own.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 A. 75
 CONTINUED: (2)
 75 HOLMES I disagree.
IRENE:「You see, we are arguing.」
narrator:Holmes gets closer and closer to Irene as he presses his case vehemently.
Sherlock Holmes:「When a man you ask me to find ends up dead in the coffin of the most notorious murderer since Jack the Ripper and that murderer manages to return from the dead, not only is it my business, it's the business of Scotland Yard and the highest levels of the British government. They will certainly consider your reticence to be an obstruction of justice. Which in relation to a crime of this magnitude would certainly mean prison time.」
IRENE:「This wine is excellent.
 You should really try some.」
narrator:Holmes notices her Derringer on the table next to the wine bottle.
Sherlock Holmes:「So what's it to be?」
IRENE:「Do we really have to decide now?」
narrator:Irene reaches for the wine.
Sherlock Holmes:「You're in over your head this time, Irene.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (3)
 75 IRENE That's better.
 Irene pulls him down to it.
 He doesn't resist.
 CLICK!
 Holmes' eyes flare with surprise.
 CLICK!
IRENE:「Much better.」
narrator:Irene has handcuffed him to the bed frame.
IRENE:「This is the only way it could ever work between us, Sherlock -- one in shackles, the other with the key.」
narrator:She gets off him.
 While he struggles on the bed, Irene walks casually across the room. She starts putting on MAN'S CLOTHING. She's in charge now.
IRENE:「I've NEVER been in over my head.」
Sherlock Holmes:「How can you live like this -- always a fugitive.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 77 BLACKWOOD (O.S.) Hello, Father...
 Thomas blinks and sees that BLACKWOOD now sits in the corner of the bathroom, lit in a sinister fashion.
 Sir Thomas' eyes widen, the muscles stand out in his neck as he fights paralysis. He slides back down, slowly.
BLACKWOOD:「You can't fight it. It comes from a power greater than yours. You can only surrender.」
narrator:The water flows over Sir Thomas, as Blackwood steps closer and takes the sacred RING from his rigid finger.
BLACKWOOD:「I've been imagining this moment for a long time...」
narrator:The water closes over his face. Sir Thomas stares up at Blackwood, who watches him drown, slowly and surely.
BLACKWOOD:「I must admit, it's better than I thought it would be.」
narrator:INT. THE GRAND HOTEL - CORRIDOR - DAY Carrying an armful of laundry, a MAID slips a pass-key into a lock and opens the door...
 to be confronted by the snoring form of Holmes, still handcuffed to the bed. Clothes in total disarray. Her shriek wakes him. He looks down at himself and reacts with shock, then grim recognition sets in.
Sherlock Holmes:「Don't take this the wrong way, but might I borrow your hand?」

narrator:A
 INT. POLICE CARRIAGE
 78A
 Holmes sits beside a COP, and opposite CONSTABLE CLARK.
Sherlock Holmes:「Chambermaids were once such a liberal breed. Besides, she misinterpreted my intention entirely. (MORE)」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 A
 CONTINUED:
 78A HOLMES This is why I find this modern religious fervor so troubling, there is no latitude for misunderstanding.
 He looks out the carriage window and sees signs of a spiritualist gathering.
Sherlock Holmes:「Faith runs riot over reason.」

narrator:C
 INT. SIR THOMAS' BATHROOM
 78C
 Holmes is briefed by Constable Clark as they enter. As Constable Clark continues in, Holmes swivels away --
CONSTABLE CLARK:「We've checked everything. No sign of a break-in. The Butler didn't hear anything. The body was in the tub, eyes wide open -- -- so that Const. Clark ends up talking to thin air.
 realizing Holmes isn't there) -- only his ring was missing.」
narrator:He turns, puzzled, looking for Holmes, finds him right back at the doorway, in full virtuoso detective mode. Right now, right here is where Holmes is at his very best -- this is, in fact, why he exists.
 Holmes is satisfied by what he sees or finds, continues into the bathroom, where a POLICE OFFICER stands over the tub and Sir Thomas' body (covered with a blanket).
 The tub has been drained. The kind of crime scene violation that Holmes cannot get them to stop doing. (CONTINUED)
 A. 78C
 CONTINUED:
 78C HOLMES Why did you drain the water?
 POLICE OFFICER Out of common decency.
Sherlock Holmes:「incensed) Crime is common, logic is rare. The decent thing to do is catch the killer, not provide comfort to the corpse.」

narrator:Neither the officer nor Clark have a response. Holmes swivels, sees a JAR OF BATH SALTS on the table next to the chair Blackwood sat in, leans over, scoops it up, opens it, sniffs it.
Sherlock Holmes:「Hmm...」
narrator:Holmes thrusts the open jar under the Officer's nose.
Sherlock Holmes:「What is that?」
narrator:POLICE OFFICER (smelling) Uhhhh... jasmine?
Sherlock Holmes:「Superb. I suspect this comes from a larger cannister. It'll either be in the pantry, high up where it's warm and dry, or in a linen closet with a vent. And, Constable, you could check the ground under the rear windows for any footprints not your own.」
narrator:Both cops hesitate -- Holmes is not their boss.
Sherlock Holmes:「Data, data, data! I cannot make bricks without clay!」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (3)
 80 HOLMES Elbows and arms stained with blood, but older than his own injuries. Plenty of it, layer on layer...
 Holmes scrapes at the layers of blood with his knife, examines it.
Sherlock Holmes:「Though none of it human.」
narrator:Watson slows down slightly. He keeps packing, trying to resist the mystery, but it's not easy.
Sherlock Holmes:「A butcher perhaps...?
 What else?」
narrator:Holmes cuts a lock of the man's hair, ignites it, studies the color of the flame carefully. Watson wrinkles his nose at the smell.
Sherlock Holmes:「Hm -- predominantly yellow flame, but with distinct green bursts. Sulfurous. He spent lots of time around industrial work and very little around a wash basin.」
narrator:Holmes uses a curved nail file to scrape dirt from under the man's fingernails, rubs the evidence between his fingers like a connoisseur.
Sherlock Holmes:「Coal... river silt...」
narrator:Watson slows down further, struggling.
Sherlock Holmes:「That plus the river silt and industrial slag on his trousers puts him squarely in...」
narrator:A hanging beat.
 And Watson finally cracks, blurting out:
WATSON:「Nine Elms.」

Sherlock Holmes:「Well done. Now, you didn't happen to pack the Lord's Register of members' interests, did you?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (5)
 80 HOLMES Something brutal by the river...
WATSON:「Woolwich Arsenal... Limehouse Chemical... Queenshithe Slaughterhouse, Nine Elms!」
Sherlock Holmes:「That's it, Watson! This should
 lead us right to Blackwood.」
narrator:Holmes leaps up and readies himself to leave.
WATSON:「Not us, you.」
narrator:This gives Holmes pause.
Sherlock Holmes:「Right. Well uh... best of luck
 with everything, then.」

narrator:EXT. QUEENSHITHE SLAUGHTERHOUSE - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT
 84
 An industrial area on a bend of the Thames. Work doesn't stop when the sun goes down. Wharves stretch out into the water. WE SEE a boat is being loaded. We PULL BACK FROM the scene and look ACROSS the water.
 Just above the thump of industry we can hear a distinctive and irregular CHUGGING sound. Slowly a decrepit and eccentric little steam launch chugs INTO VIEW. Holmes is on the deck along with a much older man in a sailor's hat -- CAPTAIN TANNER.
Sherlock Holmes:「Everything all right, Captain Tanner?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 84 HOLMES Pull in at Vauxhall. Send for the police when you get there.
 Tanner nods. A soft "splosh" as Holmes disappears. Watson carefully leaves his valued possessions behind, watch, etc. He lays down his wallet and looks at Tanner.
WATSON:「I know precisely how much money is in there.」
TANNER:「taking the piss) I am sure you do, doctor.」
narrator:Watson glares, goes over the side, with his walking stick.
 OMITTED
 EXT. QUEENSHITHE SLAUGHTERHOUSE
 86
 Holmes and Watson emerge out of the shallows, covered in mud. Holmes doesn't seem bothered. Watson does.
 They look up and see a jetty that heads out into the river. Two shadowy THUGS guard the dock, while more THUGS are loading the boat with something.
 Holmes and Watson scuttle forward, towards the entrance, where two more THUGS patrol. Watson pulls out Holmes' GUN. HOLMES What are you doing with my gun?
WATSON:「Oh, please.」
Sherlock Holmes:「It was an honest mistake --」
WATSON:「There was nothing honest about it.」

narrator:Holmes looks back at Watson, takes the gun, says nothing, the closest he'll come to a confession. Watson steps forward.
WATSON:「Come on, let's get this over with.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 86 They look out at the thugs guarding the door. Holmes whispers, trying to figure out the best strategy.
Sherlock Holmes:「The one on the left seems more attentive, might prove easily distracted. The big one's been drinking -- whether for courage or from habit... Watson?」

narrator:INT. QUEENSHITHE SLAUGHTERHOUSE - ANTECHAMBER
 89
 Shadows on shadows. Metal groans softly, like a plaintive wail. The twisted blades of slaughterhouse instruments glimmer in the darkness. A few RATS lay dead. A truly creepy scene. Holmes and Watson move through it.
 As they go, Holmes notices rows of empty tables. He runs his finger through a layer of dust, inspecting it. Quiet:
Sherlock Holmes:「They cleared something out of here, not minutes ago...」

narrator:INT. QUEENSHITHE SLAUGHTERHOUSE - FACTORY FLOOR
 90
 A massive space with a maze of machinery full of deadly gears and blades and saws, lifeless and silent for now. An automated butchery on a grand scale. This is the killing floor. Huge hooks hang from chain belts on an I- beam, the ceiling, swaying softly, whispering in the wind.
 On the high walls, a huge number has been scrawled:
 118.
WATSON:「One-eighteen.
 It's a date, a time?」
narrator:Holmes shakes his head, his eyes narrow, ticking.
Sherlock Holmes:「It's chapter and verse. Revelation 1:18. `I am He that liveth, and was dead.'」
narrator:Another voice completes the passage, echoing from above:
BLACKWOOD:「O.S.) `And behold, I am alive forevermore, and have the keys of hell and of death. Amen.'」

narrator:Holmes and Watson follow the voice to see: BLACKWOOD in the rafters. Shadows hang heavy around him. Holmes and Watson react: this is the first time they've seen him in the flesh. BLACKWOOD I cautioned you to accept that this is beyond your control. Now you see the truth for yourself.
 The hooks in the ceiling are shivering softly, strangely. Holmes tightens. Blackwood continues, his voice echoes, as the hooks move through the air, gliding on a track.
BLACKWOOD:「I want you to bear witness. At noon tomorrow, the world as you know it ends.」
narrator:Watson pulls his gun, draws a bead on Blackwood, pulls the trigger. Click. Misfire.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 90 BLACKWOOD And because I appreciate your help, Holmes, I have a gift for you.
 Holmes starts climbing up towards Blackwood.
BLACKWOOD:「voice moving away) She followed you. You led your little lamb straight to slaughter.」
narrator:Suddenly the whole machine starts up. Industrial- strength loud, movement everywhere, empty hooks jerking towards the processing line. Blades and gears and grinders churn.
 Watson's eyes go from Blackwood to --
 A pig carcass as it comes swinging out of the killing area, towards the SCORCHER (which scorches the carcasses with live flame).
 Then next carcass emerges --
 not a carcass, Irene. She is alive, for now. She hangs from two hooks on a track-line, her wrists shackled above her, her mouth gagged.
 Her eyes show terror until she sees them, then immense relief for a moment, then determination.
 Holmes looks up to see Blackwood's shadow retreating.
 Decision time.
 A
 90A INT. QUEENSHITHE SLAUGHTERHOUSE - ASSEMBLY LINE Holmes drops on to the machine and leaps from gear to gear like stepping-stones. He heaves himself up to the conveyor, where Irene is being pulled down the assembly line towards the flames.
 Watson sprints ahead, looking for a shut-off switch.
 Holmes unties Irene's gag.
Sherlock Holmes:「It's your turn in shackles this time.」

narrator:Ahead of them, the pig carcass is scorched in an overwhelming burst of flame. Holmes and Irene are next.
 CONTINUED)
 A
 CONTINUED:
 90A IRENE But this time no key, unfortunately.
 Holmes notes that Irene's hands are shackled to separate hooks. It's going to take two actions to free her.
 The flame machine gurgles ominously, gearing up for the next blast.
 Watson sees a LEVER (PLEASE NOTE, NEW PROP!) that looks promising, turns to head for it -- then his eyes focus on a big canvas splatter cloth.
Sherlock Holmes:「I've been meaning to ask you something --」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A
 CONTINUED: (2)
 90A She's suspended just above the boiling water, with Holmes moving sideways, keeping pace with her.
IRENE:「trying her best not to show the strain) You had a question.」
narrator:Holmes keeps hold of Irene's feet as he maneuvers past various obstacles --
Sherlock Holmes:「same) Ah. Yes. Do you still maintain you're not in over your head?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A
 CONTINUED: (3)
 90A -- and Watson catches her feet, pulls her horizontal, facing the other way just in time to avoid the gush of boiling water.
 As Watson holds Irene, he spots a small, but significant- looking SWITCH on the wall, painted red. (PLEASE NOTE, NEW PROP!)
 Watson helps Irene back onto the conveyor belt, leaves her for Holmes to deal with, sprints for the switch.
 Irene rides the belt upwards.
 Holmes clambers the equipment, following her.
 Up ahead, the scorched, scalded pig carcass precedes them.
 Holmes darts through a trimming station, with CLEAVERS HANGING FROM CHAINS, grabs one, jumps onto the belt, catches up to Irene --
 just as they both see the pig carcass CUT IN HALF LENGTHWAYS BY A GIANT BANDSAW.
 Holmes wastes no time, swings the meat cleaver at the lock shackling Irene's left hand. Sparks fly as metal kisses metal, but that's all. She's still shackled.
 Then both of them see that Watson has reached the SWITCH. Whew!
 Watson looks at them with relief -- close one -- and pulls the switch down with a really satisfying CLUNK!
 A bank of lights goes out but the conveyor belt keeps moving towards the giant band saw.
 Shit a brick.
IRENE:「Sherlock?」
narrator:Now, she's showing nerves. So is Sherlock. He braces himself on the belt, swings the cleaver with all his might --
 smashes the shackle lock.
 Irene swings sideways violently, still shackled by her right hand.
 The bandsaw whines viciously.
 Irene swings aside, just misses it.
 CONTINUED)
 A. 90A
 CONTINUED: (4)
 90A Gets a free haircut.
 Then Holmes is under her, lifting her high so that she can free her right hand (a move not possible with both shackles).
 Irene unhooks herself, falls forward, taking Holmes with her. They plummet downwards OUT OF FRAME.
 Watson sprints towards where they fell, looks down --
 sees them lying on a carpet of scorched, boiled, cut- in-half pig carcasses. They're okay.
 Watson shakes his head, turns, heads for the door, looking for Blackwood.
 Irene gives Holmes a sweet, grateful smile --
IRENE:「Thank you so much. I owe you.」
narrator:pulls a knife, gets up, heads after Watson.
 Holmes grabs her, stops her.
Sherlock Holmes:「You owe me information. (angry) No more games, Irene.」

narrator:EXT. NINE ELMS JETTY
 91
 Watson runs out of doors and towards the end of the dock. He sees: Blackwood and the boat are disappearing into the darkness.
 Holmes and Irene run out of the doors following Watson. Holmes slows, looking around the dock, seeing something on the planks:
 Steel drums are dripping.
 A chemical.
 Holmes recognizes it.
Sherlock Holmes:「Watson!」
narrator:Watson continues down the dock, tripping a wire connected to the steel drums, he turns realizing he has set off a trap and turns back to warn the others --
WATSON:「Holmes...」
narrator:A metallic conductor SPARKS.
 Time slows.
 BOOM!
 The drums of chemicals all EXPLODE! A blinding conflagration engulfing Watson. For a moment, it lights up all of London.
Sherlock Holmes:「WAATTTSSSSSONNN!!!!」

narrator:Holmes is pushed back
 by the explosion as the rest of the barrels that line the
 dock begin exploding arond them -- it looks as it Watson
 hasn't survived. BOOM! Irene is knocked to the ground
 by the blasts and flying debris.
 Holmes races towards her as more explosions, flames and debris fly all around him in slow motion, occasionally knocking him to the ground.
 He reaches Irene, picks her up and grabs part of an exploded barrel to shield the two as they run for cover -- BOOM! The barrel splinters as a final blast knocks them down, but to safety.
 As he opens his eyes --
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 91 We see Lestrade and his men swarming the scene, they spot Watson, alive, but unconscious. Irene has disappeared. Holmes sees this and heads toward his friend, but --
 is intercepted by Constable Clark.
CONSTABLE CLARK:「There's an order for your arrest all the way from the top, sir -- so you'll have to hit me now.」
Sherlock Holmes:「From Lord Coward?」
CONSTABLE CLARK:「Yes, sir, so make it look good.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Thank you, Clarky.」

narrator:FADE IN:
 INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB - ATTIC
 98
 The sun is rising.
 Holmes' eyes open and we see:
 WATSON -- or some deathly version of his old friend -- is sitting in the chair where Blackwood appeared.
Sherlock Holmes:「confused) Watson...?」
narrator:Watson leans closer, into the light. A ghost or a man? He gestures towards the diagram on the floor.
WATSON:「Interesting artwork.
 You look bloody awful.」
narrator:He writes something in his notebook. He is decidedly alive, but with burn flashes, cuts and bruises. His arm is in a sling. He's been through it.
 In the b.g. Irene is at the fire heating some coffee.
Sherlock Holmes:「What about the shrapnel in your arm?」
narrator:Watson shows him a piece of shrapnel --
WATSON:「Took it out myself. Mary said I had a lousy doctor.」
narrator:then tosses it away.
 They both smile.
 United in agony.
Sherlock Holmes:「quietly, between them) She brought you here?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 98 HOLMES The fair sex was always your department, Watson.
 Irene walks over and hands Holmes the cup.
Sherlock Holmes:「Thank you. You know, I dreamt that you were strangling me.」
IRENE:「I was... I had to get you to pass out to settle down.」
narrator:They smile at their unique, twisted understanding of one another.
Sherlock Holmes:「What time is it?」
WATSON:「It's half past nine.」
narrator:Holmes takes a drink of coffee.
Sherlock Holmes:「Excellent brew, but I believe my head requires something a bit stronger to clear the --」
WATSON:「I brought you this...」
Sherlock Holmes:「Exactly.」

narrator:INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB - ATTIC - ON HOLMES
 100
 as he plays the violin, but not with a bow. He plucks it, he strums it, he makes strange atonal sounds, as he STARES AT THE RITUAL PATTERN he's laid out on the floor.
 Flashes to various images of the sphinx that he's observed over the course of the investigation.
 He stands up and draws a sphinx in charcoal on the floor. Then he moves to the ox bone -- a flash of Sir Thomas' ring with the Ox crest. He draws an ox in charcoal. Next to the ox bone Holmes writes -- Sir Thomas -- OX ring.
 Next, he moves to the feather -- a flash to an Eagle in flight -- he quickly sketches an eagle. Then to an American flag, then to Standish with his eagle-topped cane. Next to the feather he writes America.
 Then he moves to the hair. He draws a man's face. Flash to Reordon's red hair. Next to it Holmes writes Man.
 Then he moves to a Lion fang. He sketches out a lion -- he thinks -- BUT no flashes. Next to it he writes a big question mark. Where? Who?
 Holmes returns to his violin. Staring at the Lion fang as if willing the flashes to come.
 INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB The music stops. Irene and Watson notice the silence. They swap a glance. A beat. And Holmes emerges.
Sherlock Holmes:「I need a map of London.」

narrator:INT. PUNCH BOWL PUB - ATTIC
 102
 Holmes is excited, electric.
Sherlock Holmes:「Now that you're sitting comfortably, I shall begin. My initial approach was far too narrow. When Blackwood invited me to Pentonville prison, he suggested I widen my gaze and, at minimum, I have done just that. In fact, I may well have reconciled thousands of years of theological disparity. But that's for another time. Blackwood's method is based on a ritualistic mystical system that has been employed by The Temple of the Four Orders for centuries. To fully understand this system, to get inside it, I re-enacted the ceremony we interrupted in the crypt... with a few enhancements of my own.」
WATSON:「At minimum.」
narrator:Watson and Irene shoot Holmes knowing looks.
Sherlock Holmes:「My journey took me somewhat further down the rabbit hole than I had intended.」
IRENE:「Yes, your little white tail got rather dirty.」
Sherlock Holmes:「But I have emerged enlightened... The fraternity who silently control the Empire, share the belief with the Kings, Pharoahs, and Emperors of old that the Sphinx was a door to another dimension, a gateway to immeasurable power --」
narrator:He tosses Watson the pages from Sir Thomas.

Sherlock Holmes:「It is made up of four parts: The Ox, the Lion, the Eagle, and Man -- (CONTINUED)」
narrator:A. 102
 CONTINUED:
 102 He points out the individual parts of the Sphinx, covering other parts with his hand. We see the Ox body, Lion paws, Eagle wings, Man's face.
Sherlock Holmes:「In Sir Thomas' secret chamber I found the bone of an ox, the tooth of a lion, the feather of an eagle, the hair of a man. Map!」
narrator:Watson throws the map down on the floor, really flying now.
Sherlock Holmes:「Now, it is a widely held belief that within the architecture of the great cities are coded references to this system.」
narrator:He runs his finger over the map tracing the shape of a cross...
 Then he picks up the charcoal and (following the map) draws a serpentine curve of the River Thames straight through the middle of the cross that he drew on the floor.
Sherlock Holmes:「Since he rose from the grave, Blackwood has killed three men. Each murder was committed at a location that has a direct connection with the Temple, therefore the System. (beat) Reordon, the ginger midget, represents Man. We found his body here...」

narrator:He points to a spot on the map south of the Thames. It corresponds to the point on the cross that Holmes drew that has the hair (6 o'clock).
Sherlock Holmes:「Then Sir Thomas, Master of the Temple, wore the ox ring... he died here...」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 B. 102
 CONTINUED: (2)
 102 HOLMES Standish was Ambassador to America, where the Eagle has been the national emblem for over a hundred years -- and not by coincidence.
 Holmes points to the map.
Sherlock Holmes:「The headquarters of Temple of the Four Orders where he died is here...」
narrator:He points to corresponding points on the map and on the cross.
WATSON:「Man, Ox, Eagle...」
narrator:He connects the dots on the map.
 They form three points of a cross.
WATSON:「And last on the list:
 the Lion. Holmes scribbles on a piece of paper. Watson and Irene step closer looking at the lion's fang and then the map...」
Sherlock Holmes:「Correspondingly, the map will tell us the location of Blackwood's final act. Right here.」
narrator:Their eyes widen as they realize what they're seeing. WATSON Parliament.
IRENE:「What is the meaning of this circle?」
narrator:Irene indicates the fifth circle Holmes has drawn -- the point at which the other four come together. They look to where it would correspond to on the map -- right in the middle of the river.
Sherlock Holmes:「It is the fifth element -- the ethereal. That which can't yet be known.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (3)
 102 WATSON It's right in the middle of the River Thames.
 BOOM! They hear doors slamming outside, boots echoing. Irene looks out the window, sees POLICE OFFICERS flooding the pub.
IRENE:「Police.」
narrator:Holmes folds up his piece of paper, hands it to Watson. He quickly moves to a hatch in the floor. Flings it open.
Sherlock Holmes:「Ladies first.」
narrator:Irene jumps down.
 Watson is about to follow her down.
Sherlock Holmes:「Follow these plans.」

narrator:INT. PARLIAMENT - LORD COWARD'S CHAMBERS
 106
 The door is opened by Lord Coward, who's halfway through putting on his official robes, and caught off guard by the sight of Holmes cuffed (hands behind him) and flanked by Lestrade and men.
LORD COWARD:「Lestrade?」
LESTRADE:「Begging your pardon, m'lord, I know it's unorthodox, but Mr. Holmes has been making serious accusations about you and the order, sir.」
narrator:Lestrade pulls his lapel, revealing a temple of four orders pin.
Sherlock Holmes:「Oh, that solves the great mystery as to how you became inspector.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 106 HOLMES I'm curious, Coward, did you assist Blackwood in all the murders or just the one I prevented? Very distinctive those hand-made shoes of yours, but the price of quality is the unique imprint they leave.
 Coward walks towards his desk at one end of the room. Holmes goes to warm himself by the fire at the other end.
Sherlock Holmes:「Nonetheless, I confess to being completely out-matched. I could deduce very little from my investigation.」
narrator:Coward turns away for a moment -- Holmes subtly kicks a log from the fire, it starts to smolder and fill the room with smoke.
Sherlock Holmes:「Fortunately, there is nothing more stimulating than a case where everything goes against you. How many members of parliament do you intend to murder at noon today? (beat) Man, ox, eagle, lion -- the lion is parliament, isn't it?」
narrator:Lord Coward slows, looks at Holmes in some astonishment.
LORD COWARD:「Very clever. But it's not murder, Mr. Holmes. It's mercy. We are giving the weak masses a strong shepherd. Don't you see it's for their own good?」

narrator:Smoke fills the room so that Holmes is concealed. Coward pulls a gun from the desk and moves to the window. He opens it to try and clear the smoke.
Sherlock Holmes:「No, but I don't care much what you think. I simply wanted to know the location of Blackwood's final ceremony, and now you have given it to me.」

narrator:SERIES OF FLASHBACKS Coward's heel walking through mud.
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) A touch of red stock brick dust on your knee, from where you've been kneeling...」
narrator:Coward's knee dropping to the ground.
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) A small bandage on your thumb from where you've been vowing...」
narrator:Coward performing a ritual.
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) A faint aroma of excrement, from where you have been standing.」
narrator:Coward, Blackwood, and the Temple members perform a ritual around a pentagram in the SEWERS. The big ceremonial sword is prominent.
LORD COWARD:「V.O.) It's a shame you made an enemy out of Blackwood, Holmes, you would have made a valuable ally. The powers at our disposal are far greater than you can imagine.」
Sherlock Holmes:「V.O.) You and Blackwood laid the final touches to your ceremony in the sewers beneath parliament less than an hour ago. (MORE) (CONTINUED)」
narrator:A/94B. 106
 CONTINUED: (3)
 106 HOLMES (V.O.) Both Houses met today. The entire government will be present.

LORD COWARD:「How terrible is wisdom, Holmes, when it brings no profit to the wise. (turning to Holmes) We take power at noon.」
narrator:REVEAL Holmes sitting in a chair behind Coward.
Sherlock Holmes:「Well there's no time to waste then, is there?」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 107 Holmes looks in the water and sees a rope trailing on the surface. He grabs it with his hands. And... it pulls him closer to the rickety boat of Captain Tanner.
 Watson stands on the rear deck, pulling Holmes in on the rope. Irene is also present.
 When Holmes is level, Watson leans over and clips off his cuffs using bolt cutters. Clearly the whole escape has been planned. Holmes is pulled up into the boat.
TANNER:「to Watson) I told you he'd be coming out the top window, soldier boy. No way he'd be coming over the terrace.」
narrator:Watson hands over the change from the engagement ring. Tanner takes it happily.
WATSON:「How was Lestrade?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Performed his role perfectly.
 A little too perfectly, come to think of it.」
narrator:Watson has the PAPER that Holmes gave him in the attic.
WATSON:「Well, your instructions were fairly precise... about everything except the window.」
narrator:Tanner smiles, still pleased with himself.
IRENE:「Where to, Sherlock?」
narrator:Holmes points to a dark recess in the embankment.
Sherlock Holmes:「Port side, Captain Tanner, into the sewers.」

narrator:Tanner turns the boat.
 Irene looks out, her eyes narrow.
Sherlock Holmes:「Watson, did you bring my clothes?」
narrator:Watson hands over a pile of clothes and Holmes' PISTOL. Holmes opens the drum, checks the load, grimaces, pockets it. He's never going to like guns.
 CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 107 Then Holmes reaches inside a pocket of clothes he is still wearing, and pulls out the hip FLASK that he took from the men at the slaughterhouse. He takes a shot.
IRENE:「Starting early, aren't we?」
narrator:He offers the flask to her.
Sherlock Holmes:「Trust me, have a drink.」
narrator:She can see this is more than a social invitation, she takes a hit, pulls a face. Holmes nods towards Watson, Irene passes him the bottle. He drinks, grimaces, hands it on to Tanner, who swallows it without flinching, wipes his mouth, smiles. The boat is almost at the sewers.
WATSON:「What are we doing in the sewers?」
Sherlock Holmes:「Patience, Doctor. I am about to show you...」

narrator:INT. SEWERS - BOAT
 110
 Tanner's boat, unlit, floats at the opening to the tunnel, on the edge of the darkness.
TANNER:「Far as I can go.」
narrator:Holmes and Watson leap off the boat into the mouth of the sewer. Irene follows. (Watson has his SWORD STICK and a GUN, Holmes has changed into the clothes Watson brought for him.)
 They move through the shadowy sewer tunnels, working their way around corners and through junctions back under the Houses of Parliament. (CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 110 Holmes ducks around a corner, stops. Irene and Watson flank him, standing in shadows. They look down a long tunnel to:
 The area where Coward and Blackwood were seen in the flashback ceremony with the sword. But now:
 Blackwood's THUGS patrol the area. In the center, the pentagram remains. But there is something sitting in it, a futuristic device:
Sherlock Holmes:「Behold, Blackwood's magic.」
narrator:A black glass cylinder is housed in a metal cradle with electrodes on either side. It sits below a shattered ceiling, bricks dismantled, exposing a VENTILATION PIPE. Holmes looks back at Watson and Irene. Quiet:
Sherlock Holmes:「A chemical weapon. The first of its kind. Cyanide, to be precise.」

WATSON:「You can tell that from here?」
Sherlock Holmes:「No.
 I can tell it from here. He pulls something out of his pocket:
 the RAT TAIL.
 I snipped this off a rather recumbent rat at the slaughterhouse. Note the blue discoloration, the faint smell of bitter almonds. Tell-tale signs of cyanide.」
narrator:He points at the device and the exposed shaft over it.
Sherlock Holmes:「That shaft leads directly to Parliament. When activated, those electrodes on either side will send a charge converting the cyanide powder into a gas.」

narrator:A
 INT. PARLIAMENT - DAY
 110A
 Air blows UP through the grate. The chamber is now full of Lords and senior Royals. As they start to take seats, Lord Coward steps up, checks the crowd. He sees a shadow up in the Lords' Gallery.
 OMITTED
 INT. SEWERS - DAY
 112
 Holmes checks his watch.
Sherlock Holmes:「Seven minutes to twelve...」
narrator:They nod. Shoulder-to-shoulder, they move down the tunnel, faster and faster.
 Irene trails them closely.
 Watson slides his sword stick into a loop on his belt. It's there when he needs it, out of the way otherwise.
 They draw their guns. They burst into the area, completely surprising the three thugs.
 Watson pistol-whips the nearest.
 Holmes front-kicks the next.
 The third thug looks down the barrels of both their guns before he has a chance to fight or flee.
Sherlock Holmes:「I wouldn't.」
narrator:He doesn't. Irene comes in behind them and heads straight for the device.
WATSON:「I'll keep these under wraps.」
narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 112 HOLMES Take this.
 Holmes hands Watson his gun. Gun in each hand, Watson herds the three thugs away from the device.
WATSON:「Over there.」

narrator:Sullen, but without much resistance, they move away (two dragging the pistol-whipped one, who is out). Watson turns so that he can watch the action at the device --
 which puts his back to another tunnel.
 Holmes joins Irene at the device. She grips her knife, looking for a way to detach the CYLINDER from the CRADLE (where electric coils and circuits pulse).
IRENE:「I've never seen anything like it.」
Sherlock Holmes:「There's never been anything like it. A totally wire-free weapon. He must have some kind of remote device sending a signal to the receiver. Really quite --」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED: (2)
 112 Irene shoots one point blank with her Derringer, Holmes crushes the other's larynx.
Sherlock Holmes:「to Irene) Keep at it.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 114 IRENE (without looking up) Nine strokes left.
 Dredger grins --
 until he is earholed from behind by two bricks, swung with full force by Watson.
 Dredger drops Holmes, staggers back holding his bleeding ears. Holmes heads back to Irene.
 Watson draws the sword from his sword stick.
 Deadly enough, but not very big.
WATSON:「You owe me for the ring.」
narrator:Dredger backs off, as if scared of the sword -- but only until he can reach up and pull Blackwood's ceremonial sword down off a brick ledge. This is going to be more uneven than usual.
 BONG!
 As Watson parries Dredger's massive slashes and thrusts all around them, only just keeping Dredger at bay --
 Holmes sees that the cylinder is welded onto the cradle by two RODS. His eyes narrow, a plan forming.
Sherlock Holmes:「Give me your gun. The bullets, I need the bullets.」

narrator:INT. HOUSE OF LORDS
 115
 Blackwood has lit four small red candles, placed them on the balustrade in front of him. He calmly intones a familiar chant. Lords are on their feet. Guards are banging outside the doors, but the doors are locked. Members of the Temple of Four Orders stand in front of anyone going to open them.
 INT. SEWER TUNNEL - DAY Holmes rips the stem off his pipe, places the open end of the bowl against the bolt holding the cylinders in place. Shaped charge, Victorian-style.
Sherlock Holmes:「We need a light, a match --」

narrator:C
 INT. PARLIAMENT
 117C
 The men wait for something mythic, magical.
 And...
 Nothing happens. Nothing at all. They look around. Everyone is still standing. Coward looks confused, scared. Other Temple members eye him.
 Blackwood hits the remote again. But again, nothing happens. WE SEE something new in his eyes: fear. He ducks away fast, disappearing into the gallery.
 D
 117D OMITTED
 INT. SEWER JUNCTION - DAY
 118
 Holmes and Irene look each other in the eye.
 For the first time, neither knows what to say.
IRENE:「That was something new for us.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Yes... it was.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 CONTINUED:
 118 Holmes whips around -- sees Watson, seemingly dead. He goes to him, drops to his knees next to Watson, feels for a pulse.
 With his face still pressed to the stones:
WATSON:「I'm pretty sure I heard the last chime.」
narrator:Holmes looks down at his friend, relieved.
Sherlock Holmes:「Yes, we made it. Just.」
narrator:Watson rolls over, sits up.
 He's done, had enough.
Sherlock Holmes:「Come on, you've got to admit, you're going to miss this.」
WATSON:「Which part? The stench of the sewers or the broken bones? (beat) My ankle's done.」
narrator:Watson looks around.
WATSON:「Where's Irene?」
narrator:Holmes turns, looks. The cylinders are gone, and so is Irene. His face darkens. He misread her yet again.
WATSON:「Holmes, I'm sorry...」
narrator:Holmes sees Irene's lithe shadow moving fast into a maze of tunnels. He motions to the disabled device.
Sherlock Holmes:「Make sure Lestrade keeps it intact.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 H
 CONTINUED: (2)
 119H EXT. TOWER BRIDGE - WALKWAY - DAY
 A look between them and then it's on. Holmes grabs a short section of wooden batten out of the railing. Flimsy, no match for the sword --
 which is immediately apparent as Blackwood comes in, slashes, chops six inches off the batten.
 BLACKWOOD
 I planned to kill a handful of
 senile old men to make this empire
 strong... but now because of you
 thousands are going to die.
 Holmes is on the defensive throughout, but, as before, his target is the cylinder first, Blackwood second, self defense third.
 BLACKWOOD
 All I have to do is break this
 cylinder. The wind will do the
 rest. And you'll be the first.
 The two men continue their swordfight: Holmes grabs some
 rope hanging from the scaffolding above and swings off
 the bridge. Blackwood steps to the edge with his sword
 out, awaiting Holmes. Holmes swings towards the blade
 and then pushes off the bridge once again to avoid it.
 Holmes swings back onto the bridge a few feet away from
 Blackwood. He lands, whips off his scarf and twirls it
 around Blackwood's arm, binding them together. They
 continue to spar, now bound.
 Blackwood snarls, mounts a frenzied attack, which Holmes
 simply tries to survive. The two men finally part, with
 Holmes cast off towards the end of the bridge.
 Blackwood smiles. He grabs Holmes' gun (which Blackwood
 knocked from Irene's hand earlier).
 Blackwood fires at Holmes. Holmes quickly ducks. The
 bullet misses him, but hits a bucket twirling above his
 head. A black liquid (tar) begins to pour out in a
 circle around him.
 Holmes turns, as if to flee (not that there's anywhere to go) -- his eyes lock on to something. He looks back to
 Blackwood.
 Holmes kicks a huge scaffolding plank, which falls --
 whipping a coil of rope across the floor, hooking Blackwood around his ankle. (CONTINUED)
 A. 119H
 CONTINUED: (3)
 119H Blackwood is DRAGGED down the walkway by the weight of the falling plank, pulled toward the edge.
 Holmes grabs the cylinders as Blackwood passes.
 Blackwood digs his fingers into a gap, screeching to a painful halt. His fingers are white from strain. Holmes remains cool.
 HOLMES
 There was never any magic.
 Only
 conjuring tricks.
 Above Holmes:
 the raven starts PECKING at a rope.
Sherlock Holmes:「The simplest involved paying
 people off, like the prison
 guard...」

narrator:Holmes looks over the edge of the walkway. He sees the plank swinging dangerously in the storm. Blackwood strains desperately to hold on. As Holmes steps closer we INTERCUT with relevant FLASHBACKS.
Sherlock Holmes:「guard choking/
 payoff)
 Who pretended to be possessed
 outside your cell. Your
 reputation and your jailers' fear
 did the rest.
 (burial ground/
 licking rocks)
 Others required more elaborate
 preparation, like the sandstone
 slab that covered your tomb. You
 had it broken before your burial
 then put back together using a
 mild adhesive. An ancient
 Egyptian recipe I believe -- a
 mixture of egg and honey.
 Designed to be washed away by the
 rain or eaten by animals.
 (bath/Reordon flashback) Arranging for your father to drown
 in his own bathtub required more
 modern science. Very clever of
 Reordon to find a paralytic that
 was activated by the combination
 of copper and water and was
 therefore undetectable once the
 bath water was drained.
 (MORE) (CONTINUED)」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 H
 CONTINUED: (5)
 119H Blackwood struggles to hold on, he loses his grip for a second and is dragged back toward the precipice. Wind whips harder.
 Holmes doesn't notice: The Raven's rope SNAPS, starting a slow, subtle DOMINO EFFECT IN B.G.: a bucket drops, hits a row of standing timbers. The timbers start to topple.
 NOTE: Each time one object strikes another, we hear a faint musical note moving up the same pentatonic scale that Holmes played earlier for his flies.)
Sherlock Holmes:「You hated your father and the
 other members of the Temple of the
 Four Orders for what they did to
 you. How satisfying it must have
 been to use their own system
 against them.」
narrator:IN B.G.: We see the slow, inexorable dominoes continue to fall. The last timber falls over the edge, lands on a rope. The rope yanks down a crane, the crane swings, strikes another crane...
BLACKWOOD:「Cut me loose, Holmes!」
narrator:Blackwood's eyes are full of fear. Holmes thoughtfully looks out at the angry storm, the atmosphere electric and dangerous. Holmes gives the slightest hint of a smile.
Sherlock Holmes:「You better hope that it's nothing
 more than superstition as you
 performed all the rituals perfectly.」

narrator:A
 EXT. TOWER BRIDGE - DUSK
 122A
 Rain falls softly.
LESTRADE:「It'll be a hell of a trick if Blackwood comes back from this one.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Thank you, Lestrade.」
LESTRADE:「Now you're going to be even more arrogant and insufferable than ever.」
narrator:Then Lestrade cracks a smile.
LESTRADE:「You're welcome, detective. (beat) Is the woman up there?」
Sherlock Holmes:「She won't be by the time your boys get there.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 B
 CONTINUED: (3)
 123B Watson feels for a pulse in his dog's neck -- he shakes his head. They are interrupted by a knock on the door. Constable Clark enters.
CONSTABLE CLARK:「Mr. Holmes... Inspector Lestrade asks that you come with me, right away.」
Sherlock Holmes:「What is it this time, Clarky?」

narrator:INT. 221 BAKER ST. (PRESENT)
 126
Sherlock Holmes:「Were there powder burns on his eyebrows?」
narrator:Clarky nods.
CONSTABLE CLARK:「He was shot at point-blank range.」
narrator:Holmes and Watson look at each other -- complete change of demeanor -- mind racing, looking concerned.
 The dog has regained its vital signs.
WATSON:「There's a brave boy... There, there, everything's going to be all right.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Where is Blackwood's device now?」

narrator:CLOSEUP ON HOLMES AND WATSON
 Piecing it together:
WATSON:「I'd wager there's a piece missing.」
Sherlock Holmes:「Wager, Watson... I thought those days were behind you. Excellent deduction, however.」

narrator:CONTINUED)
 A. 126
 CONTINUED:
 126 WATSON Moriarty was after the machine not the poison.
 Holmes nods.
Sherlock Holmes:「Blackwood's wire-free invention was the game all along. It is undoubtedly the more dangerous and the more valuable of the two... (wistful) Irene was just a diversion.」
narrator:Mary looks at Watson who is clearly trying to curb his enthusiasm and interest.
 A KNOCK.
 The MAN from the stairs pokes his head in.
 MAN (to Watson) I've loaded the last of your boxes, sir.
 Watson nods, the Driver exits.
 Watson turns to Holmes.
WATSON:「Well...」
Sherlock Holmes:「I'll walk out with you...」

narrator:EXT. 221 BAKER ST. - DAY
 127
 Mary and Gladstone wait for Watson in the carriage.
 Holmes and Watson stand in the doorway.
 A stiff beat. Holmes extends an awkward hand.
Sherlock Holmes:「An honor working with you, Doctor.」
narrator:Watson shakes Holmes' hand, puts a hand on his arm.
 A warm look, an understanding between the two men.
WATSON:「Take care of yourself, Holmes.」
narrator:Watson moves to the open door of the carriage but Mary stops him.
MARY:「Try not to be too late for dinner with my parents and... be careful.」
narrator:She waves to Holmes as the carriage pulls away.
 Watson looks relieved and excited.
Sherlock Holmes:「Magnificent woman, Watson. Magnificent!」
