narrator:SOUND of office busywork: shuffling, typing, arguing.
 PERSONAL OFFICE is a cluttered disarray. Sheets with heading "Marvis, B&amp;W, Acme" and so forth are tacked to crumbling plaster wall: It is March. Desk is cluttered with forms, reports and an old upright Royal typewriter.
 Dishelved middle-aged New Yorker looks up from the desk. We CUT IN to ongoing conversation between the middle-aged PERSONNEL OFFICER and a YOUNG MAN standing in front on his desk.
 The young man is TRAVIS BICKLE. He wears his jeans, boots and Army jacket. He takes a drag off his unfiltered cigarette.
 The PERSONNEL OFFICER is beat and exhausted: he arrives at work exhausted. TRAVIS is something else again. His intense steely gaze is enough to jar even the PERSONNEL OFFICER out of his workaday boredom.
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「O.S.) No trouble with the Hack Bureau?」
Travis Bickle:「O.S.) No Sir.」

PERSONNEL OFFICER:「O.S.) Got your license?」
Travis Bickle:「O.S.) Yes.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「So why do you want to be a taxi driver?」
Travis Bickle:「I can't sleep nights.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「There's porno theatres for that.」
Travis Bickle:「I know. I tried that.」

Travis Bickle:「I ride around nights mostly. Subways, buses. See things. Figur'd I might as well get paid for it.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「We don't need any misfits around here, son.」
narrator:A thin smile cracks almost indiscernibly across TRAVIS' lips.
Travis Bickle:「You kiddin? Who else would hack through South Bronx or Harlem at night?」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「You want to work uptown nights?」
Travis Bickle:「I'll work anywhere, anytime. I know I can't be choosy.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「thinks a moment) How's your driving record?」
Travis Bickle:「Clean. Real clean. (pause, thin smile) As clean as my conscience.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「Listen, son, you gonna get smart, you can leave right now.」
Travis Bickle:「apologetic) Sorry, sir. I didn't mean that.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「Physical? Criminal?」
Travis Bickle:「Also clean.」

Travis Bickle:「Some. Here and there.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「Military record?」
Travis Bickle:「Honorable discharge. May 1971.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「You moonlightin?」
Travis Bickle:「No, I want long shifts.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「casually, almost to himself) We hire a lot of moonlighters here.」
Travis Bickle:「So I hear.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「looks up at Travis) Hell, we ain't that much fussy anyway. There's always opening on one fleet or another. (rummages through his drawer, collecting various pink, yellow and white forms) Fill out these forms and give them to the girl at the desk, and leave your phone number. You gotta phone?」
Travis Bickle:「No.」
PERSONNEL OFFICER:「Well then check back tomorrow.」
Travis Bickle:「Yes, Sir.」

narrator:Cabs and umbrellas are congested everywhere; well-dressed pedestrians are pushing, running, waving down taxis. The high-class theatre patrons crowding out of the midtown shows are shocked to find that the same rain that falls on the poor and common is also falling on them.
 The unremitting SOUNDS of HONKING and SHOUTING play against the dull pitter-patter of rain. The glare of yellow, red and green lights reflects off the pavements and autos.
 When it rains, the boss of the city is the taxi driver" - so goes the cabbie's maxim, proven true by this particular night's activity. Only the taxis seem to rise above the situation: They glide effortlessly through the rain and traffic, picking up whom they choose, going where they please.
 Further uptown, the crowds are neither so frantic nor so glittering. The rain also falls on the street bums and aged poor. Junkies still stand around on rainy street corners, hookers still prowl rainy sidewalks. And the taxis service them too.
 All through the CREDITS the exterior sounds are muted, as if coming from a distant room or storefront around the corner. The listener is at a safe but privileged distance.
 After examining various strata of Manhattan nightlife, CAMERA begins to CLOSE IN on one particular taxi, and it is assumed that this taxi is being driven by TRAVIS BICKLE.
 END CREDITS
 CUT TO:
 Travis's yellow taxi pulls in foreground. On left rear door are lettered the words "Dependable Taxi Service".
 We are somewhere on the upper fifties on Fifth Ave. The rain has not let up.
 An ELDERLY WOMAN climbs in the right rear door, crushing her umbrella. Travis waits a moment, then pulls away from the curb with a start.
 Later, we see Travis' taxi speeding down the rain-slicked avenue. The action is periodically accompanied by Travis' narration. He is reading from a haphazard personal diary.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) (monotone) April 10, 1972. Thank God for the rain which has helped wash the garbage and trash off the sidewalks.」

narrator:TRAVIS' POV of sleazy midtown side street: Bums, hookers, junkies.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I'm working a single now, which means stretch-shifts, six to six, sometimes six to eight in the a.m., six days a week.」
narrator:A MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT hails Travis to the curb.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) It's a hustle, but it keeps me busy. I can take in three to three-fifty a week, more with skims.」
narrator:MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT, now seated in back seat, speaks up:
MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT:「urgent) Is Kennedy operating, cabbie? Is it grounded?」
narrator:On seat next to TRAVIS is half-eaten cheeseburger and order of french fries. He puts his cigarette down and gulps as he answers:
Travis Bickle:「Why should it be grounded?」
MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT:「Listen - I mean I just saw the needle of the Empire State Building. You can't see it for the fog!」
Travis Bickle:「Then it's a good guess it's grounded.」

MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT:「The Empire State in fog means something, don't it? Do you know, or don't you? What is your number, cabbie?」
Travis Bickle:「Have you tried the telephone?」
MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT:「hostile, impatient) There isn't time for that. In other words, you don't know.」
Travis Bickle:「No.」

MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT:「Well, you should know, damn it, or who else would know? Pull over right here. (points out window) Why don't you stick your goddamn head out of the goddamn window once in a while and find out about the goddamn fog!」
narrator:TRAVIS pulls to the curb. The BUSINESS MAN stuffs a dollar bill into the pay drawer and jumps out of the cab. He turns to hail another taxi.
MAN IN BUSINESS SUIT:「Taxi! Taxi!」
narrator:Travis writes up his trip card and drives away.
 It is LATER THAT NIGHT. The rain has turned to drizzle. Travis drives trough another section of Manhattan.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I work the whole city, up, down, don't make no difference to me - does to some.」
narrator:STREETSIDE: TRAVIS' P.O.V. Black PROSTITUTE wearing white vinyl boots, leopard-skin mini-skirt and blond wig hails taxi. On her arm hangs half-drunk seedy EXECUTIVE TYPE.
 TRAVIS pulls over.
 PROSTITUTE and JOHN climb into back seat. TRAVIS checks out the action in rear view mirror.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) Some won't take spooks - Hell, don't make no difference tom me.」

narrator:TRAVIS stares blankly ahead.
 CUT TO:
 TRAVIS' APARTMENT. CAMERA PANS SILENTLY across INT. room, indicating this is not a new scene.
 TRAVIS is sitting at plain table writing. He wears shirt, jeans, boots. An unfiltered cigarette rests in a bent coffee can ash tray.
 CLOSE UP of notebook. It is a plain lined dimestore notebook and the words TRAVIS is writing with a stubby pencil are those he is saying. The columns are straight, disciplined. Some of the writing is in pencil, some in ink. The handwriting is jagged.
 CAMERA continues to PAN, examining TRAVIS' apartment. It is unusual, to say the least:
 A ratty old mattress is thrown against one wall. The floor is littered with old newspapers, worn and unfolded streets maps and pornography. The pornography is of the sort that looks cheap but costs $10 a threw - black and white photos of naked women tied and gagged with black leather straps and clothesline. There is no furniture other than the rickety chair and table. A beat-up portable TV rests on an upright melon crate. The red silk mass in another corner looks like a Vietnamese flag. Indecipherable words, figures, numbers are scribbled on the plain plaster walls. Ragged black wires dangle from the wall where the telephone once hung.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) They're all animals anyway. All the animals come out at night: Whores, skunk pussies, buggers, queens, fairies, dopers, junkies, sick, venal. (a beat) Someday a real rain will come and wash all this scum off the streets.」

narrator:It's EARLY MORNING: 6 a.m. The air is clean and fresh and the streets nearly deserted.
 EXT. of TAXI GARAGE. TRAVIS' taxi pulls into the driveway.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) Each night when I return the cab to the garage I have to clean the come off the back seat. Some nights I clean off the blood.」

narrator:The SOUND of the feature drones in the background.
CONCESSION GIRL:「Kin I help ya?」
narrator:Travis rests his elbow on the counter, looking at the Girl. He is obviously trying to be friendly - no easy task for him. God knows he needs a friend.
Travis Bickle:「What is your name? My name is Travis.」
CONCESSION GIRL:「Awh, come off it, Pal.」
Travis Bickle:「No, I'm serious, really...」
CONCESSION GIRL:「Ya want me to call da boss? Huh? That what you want?
 No, no, it's alright. I'll have a big Coca-Cola - without ice - and a large buttered popcorn, and... (pointing) ... some of them chocolate covered malted milk balls... and ju-jukes, a box. They last.
 We don't have ju-jukes. We don't have Coca-Cola. We only got Royal Crown Cola.」
Travis Bickle:「That's fine.」

narrator:Male Voice yields to Travis' monotone narration.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) Twelve hours of work and I still cannot sleep. The days dwindle on forever and do not end.」

narrator:EXT. PALANTINE HEADQUARTERS
 Tom strides out the front door and walks briskly across the street toward Travis' taxi.
 Travis spots Tom walking toward him and quickly stares up his cab, then squeals off in a burst of billowing exhaust.
 Tom watches the speeding taxi quizzically.
 Travis' taxi continues down Broadway.
 CUT TO:
 INT. TRAVIS' APARTMENT
 He lies on his mattress at the ceiling. He is fully clothed and appears deep in thought.
 Near his mattress rest several medications: A large bottle of vitamin pills, two smaller bottles of pills, a bottle of peach-flavored brandy.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) All my life needed was a sense of direction, a sense of someplace to go. I do not believe one should devote his life to morbid self- attention, but should become a person like other people.」

narrator:ANOTHER DAY - LATE AFTERNOON
 Travis' taxi is driving down Broadway with the "Off Duty" sign on.
 POV TRACKING SHOT down Broadway. CAMERA stops at Palantine Campaign Headquarters. A few WORKERS remain in the office. Betsy's desk is vacant.
 FIFTH AVENUE - THE SAME AFTERNOON
 CAMERA TRACKS with crowded mass of MANHATTANITES as they ooze through the sidewalks toward their various destination. Individuals are indiscernible: It is simply a congested mass.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I first saw her at Palantine Campaign Headquarters at 58th and Broadway. She was wearing a yellow dress, answering the phone at her desk.」

narrator:Suddenly: Cut of the congested human mass, IN SLOWING MOTION, appears the slender figure of BETSY in a stylish yellow dress. The crowd parts like the Red Sea, and there she is: Walking all alone, untouched by the crowd, suspended in space and time.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) She appeared like an angel out of this open sewer. Out of this filthy mass. She is alone: They cannot touch her.」

narrator:DOUGH-BOY Not rouge. Blush-On, they call it.
WIZARD:「The kind with a brush.」
narrator:Travis appears at the door. He has to push aside the JUNKIES to enter without making physical contact - something Travis would not relish. He may be repulsed with these people and this place, but he is too much a part of this to let his feelings rise to the surface.
 Wizard gives Travis a perfunctory wave.
WIZARD:「Travis.」
Travis Bickle:「Hey Wizard.」

WIZARD:「Well, she was trying to keep her skirt down, sort of, you know. But it was pretty obvious what she was doing. I mean, Christ, it was rush hour and the traffic's practically standing still.」
narrator:DOUGH-BOY What did you do?
WIZARD:「Threw on the emergency, jumped the seat and fucked her brains out - What do you think! (they laugh) What do I have to do? Draw you a picture?」
narrator:DOUGH-BOY Yeah.
WIZARD:「What was I supposed to do? I was watching in the rear view. You know, just checkin' traffic. (to Travis) So howsit?」
Travis Bickle:「w/o inflection) Some fleet driver for Bell just cut up. Just heard it on the radio.」

WIZARD:「We call him Dough-Boy cause he likes the dollars. He'll chase a buck straight into Jersey.」
narrator:DOUGH-BOY Look who's talking? (gestures around table) Who else would stay up all night to catch the morning rush hour?
 Travis sips his coffee. Charlie T.'s eyelids slip shut.
WIZARD:「to Travis) So howsit?」
Travis Bickle:「w/o inflection) Some fleet driver for Bell just got cut up. Just heard it on the radio.」

Travis Bickle:「No, just some crazy fucker. Cut have his ear off.」
narrator:DOUGH-BOY Where.
Travis Bickle:「In the jungle. 122nd.」
narrator:Travis' eyes turn toward the restaurant's other patrons.
 POV: THREE STREET PEOPLE sitting at a table. One GUY, stoned, stares straight ahead. A raggedly attractive GIRL rest her head on the shoulder of the other, a heavily bearded YOUNG MAN with a headband. They kiss and tease each other, momentarily lost in their separate world.
 Travis watches the hippie couple closely, his feeling sharply divided between cultural contempt and morose jealousy. Why should these people enjoy the love and intimacy that has always eluded him? He must enjoy these schizoid emotions, because his eyes dwell on the couple.
 DOUGH-BOY (changing the subject) You run all over town, don't you, Travis?
WIZARD:「referring to 122nd St.) Fuckin' Mau Mau land, that's what it is.」
narrator:Travis turns back to his companions.
Travis Bickle:「Huh?」
narrator:DOUGH-BOY I mean, you handle some pretty rough traffic, huh?
Travis Bickle:「catching on) I have.」

narrator:DOUGH-BOY You carry a piece? You need one?
Travis Bickle:「Nah. (a beat) I suppose not.」

TOM:「With the other hand, right?」
BETSY:「No, stupid. With the stubs. That's the whole point.」
TOM:「I know that guy. His hand looks like a paw. An old Black guy, the newsstand at -」
BETSY:「No, this is young - well, I'm never sure how old Black people are - but, anyway, he isn't old. That's for sure.」
TOM:「Show me how he did that again.」
narrator:EXT. ACROSS THE STREET FROM HEADQUARTERS
 Travis is striding briskly across Broadway toward the Palantine Headquarters.
 He s dressed the best we have seen him; his pants (not jeans) are pressed, his boots shined, his hair combed. Under his Army jacket he wears a freshly laundered shirt and ivy league tie. He drops his cigarette, steps on it and walks in.
 Watching Travis enter Palantine's Headquarters, we are surprised to realize that Travis is really quite attractive. His deformities are psychological, not physical. He believes he is cursed, and therefore he is.
 Travis walks briskly into the office, and heads toward Betsy's desk. Tom walks over to greet him, but Travis ignores him.
Travis Bickle:「at Betsy's desk) I want to volunteer.」

Travis Bickle:「to Betsy) No. I want to volunteer to you.」
TOM:「under his voice) Bets.」
narrator:BETSY waves TOM off with a short gesture, indicating everything is OK. He walks away.
BETSY:「curious) And why is that?」
narrator:TRAVIS is on his best behavior. He smiles slightly:
Travis Bickle:「Because you are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen.」
narrator:BETSY is momentarily taken back, but pleased. TRAVIS' presence has a definite sexual charge. He has those star qualities BETSY looks for: She senses there is something special about the young man who stands before her. And then, too, there is that disarming smile. He is, as Betsy would say, "fascinating".
BETSY:「smiling) Is that so? (pause) But what do you think of Charles Palantine?」
Travis Bickle:「his mind elsewhere) Who mam?」
BETSY:「Charles Palantine. The man you want to volunteer to help elect president.」
Travis Bickle:「Oh, I think he's a wonderful man. Make a great, great President.」
BETSY:「You want to canvass?」
Travis Bickle:「Yes, mam.」

narrator:Betsy is interviewing Travis, but she is also teasing him a little, leading him on in a gentle feminine way:
BETSY:「How do you feel about Senator Palantine's stand on welfare?」
narrator:This takes TRAVIS back a bit. He obviously doesn't have the slightest idea what Palantine's stand on welfare is, in fact, he doesn't have any idea about politics whatsoever. TRAVIS thinks a moment, then improvises an answer:
Travis Bickle:「Welfare, mam? I think the Senator's right. People should work for a living. I do. I like to work. Every day. Get those old coots off welfare and make 'em work for a change.」
narrator:Betsy does a subtle double-take: This isn't exactly Palantine's position on welfare. She remain intrigued by Travis.
BETSY:「Well, that's not exactly what the Senator has proposed. You might not want to canvass, but there is plenty more other work we need done: Office work, filing, poster hanging.」
Travis Bickle:「I'm a good worker, Betsy mam, a real good worker.」
BETSY:「gesturing) if you talk to Tom, he'll assign you to something.」
Travis Bickle:「If you don't mind, mam, I'd rather work for you.」

BETSY:「Well, we're all working tonight.」
Travis Bickle:「Well, Betsy mam, I drive a taxi at night.」

BETSY:「Well, then, what is it you exactly want to do?」
Travis Bickle:「bolstering courage) If you don't mind, mam, I'd be mighty pleased if you'd go out and have some coffee and pie with me.」
narrator:Betsy doesn't quite know what to make of Travis. She is curious, intrigued, tantalized. Like a moth, she draws closer to the flame.
BETSY:「Why?」
Travis Bickle:「Well, Betsy mam, I drive by this place here in my taxi many times a day. And I watch you sitting here at this big long desk with these telephones, and I say to myself, that's a lonely girl. She needs a friend. And I'm gonna be her friend. (smiles)」

narrator:Travis rarely smiles, but when he does his whole face glows. It is as if he is able to tap an inner reserve of charm unknown even to himself. Betsy is completely disarmed.
BETSY:「I don't know...」
Travis Bickle:「It's just to the corner, mam. In broad daytime. Nothing can happen. I'll be there to protect you.」
BETSY:「smiles) All right. (relents) All right. I'm taking a break at four o'clock. If you're here then we'll go to the corner and have some coffee and pie.」
Travis Bickle:「Oh, I appreciate that, Betsy mam. I'll be here at four o'clock exactly. (pause) And... ah... Betsy...」

BETSY:「Yes?」
Travis Bickle:「My name is Travis.」
BETSY:「Thank you, Travis.」
narrator:Travis nods, turns and exits.
 Tom, who has been watching this interchange with a pseudo- standoffish (actually jealous) air, steps over to Betsy. His manner demands some sort of explanation of what Betsy was doing.
 Betsy simply shrugs (it's really none of his business) and says:
BETSY:「I'm just going to find out what the cabbies are thinking.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 Travis is pacing back and forth on Broadway just beyond the Palantine Headquarters. He checks his watch.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) April 26, 1972. Four o'clock p.m. I took Betsy to the Mayfair Coffee Shop on Broadway...」
narrator:INT. COFFEE SHOP
 Travis and Betsy are sitting in a booth of a small New York Coffee Shop. They both have been served coffee; Travis is nervously turning his cup around in his hands.
 As Travis speaks V.O., WAITRESS brings their orders: Apple pie for TRAVIS, fruit compote for BETSY.

Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I had black coffee and apple pie with a slice of melted yellow cheese. I think that was a good selection. Betsy had coffee and a fruit salad dish. She could have had anything she wanted.」

BETSY:「We've signed up 15.000 Palantine volunteers in New York so far. The organizational problems are becoming just staggering.」
Travis Bickle:「I know what you mean. I've got the same problems. I just can't get things organized. Little things, I mean. Like my room, my possessions. I should get one of those signs that says, "One of these days I'm Gonna Organezizied".」
narrator:Travis contorts his mouth to match his mispronunciation, than breaks into a big, friendly, infectious grin. The very sight of it makes one's heart proud.
 Betsy cannot help but be caught up in Travis' gin. Travis' contagious, quicksilver moods cause:
BETSY:「laughing) Travis, I never ever met anybody like you before.」
Travis Bickle:「I can believe that.」
BETSY:「Where do you live?」
Travis Bickle:「evasive) Oh, uptown. You know. Some joint. It ain't much.」
BETSY:「So why did you decide to drive a taxi at night?」

Travis Bickle:「I had a regular job for a while, days. You know, doin' this, doin' that. But I didn't have anything to do at night. I got kinda lonely, you know, just wandering around. So I decided to works nights. It ain't good to be alone, you know.」

Travis Bickle:「Yeah, well... (a beat) In a cab you get to meet people. You meet lotsa people. It's good for you.」
BETSY:「What kind of people?」
Travis Bickle:「Just people people, you know. Just people. (a beat) Had a dead man once.」
BETSY:「Really?」
Travis Bickle:「He'd been shot. I didn't know that. He just crawled into the back seat, said "West 45th Street" and conked out.」
BETSY:「What did you do?」
Travis Bickle:「I shot the meter off, for one thing. I knew I wasn't goimg to get paid. Then I dropped him off at the cop shop. They took him.」
BETSY:「That's really something.」
Travis Bickle:「Oh, you see lots of freaky stuff in a cab. Especially when the moon's out.」
BETSY:「The moon?」
Travis Bickle:「The full moon. One night I had three or four weirdoes in a row and I looked up and, sure enough, there it was - the full moon.」

Travis Bickle:「Oh, yeah. People will do anything in front of a taxi driver. I mean anything. People too cheap to rent a hotel room, people scoring dope, people shooting up, people who want to embarrass you. (a bitterness emerges) It's like you're not even there, not even a person. Nobody knows you.」
narrator:Betsy cuts Travis' bitterness short:
BETSY:「Com'on, Travis. It's not that bad. I take lots of taxis.」
Travis Bickle:「I know. I could have picked you up.」
BETSY:「Huh?」
Travis Bickle:「Late one night. About three. At the plaza.」
BETSY:「Three in the morning? I don't think so. I have to go to bed early. I work days. It must have been somebody else.」
Travis Bickle:「No. It was you. You had some manila folders and a pink bag from Saks.」
narrator:Betsy, realizing Travis remembers her precisely, scrambles for a polite rationale for her behavior:
BETSY:「You're right! Now I remember! It was after the Western regional planners were in town and the meeting went late. The next day I was completely bushed. It was unbelievable.」

Travis Bickle:「If it wasn't for a drunk I would have picked you up. He wanted to go to the DMZ.」

BETSY:「The DMZ?」
Travis Bickle:「South Bronx. The worst. I tried to ditch him, but he was already in the cab, so I had to take him. That's the law. Otherwise I would have picked you up.」
BETSY:「That would have been quite a coincidence.」
Travis Bickle:「You'd be surprised how often you see the same people, get the same fare. People have patterns. They do more or less the same things every day. I can tell.」
BETSY:「Well, I don't go to the Plaza every night.」
Travis Bickle:「I didn't mean you. But just ordinary people. A guy I know - Dough-Boy - met his wife that way. They got to talking. She said she usually caught the bus so he started picking her up at the bus stop, taking her home with the flag up.」
BETSY:「That's very romantic. Some of your fares must be interesting. See any stars, politicians, deliver any babies yet?」

Travis Bickle:「Well, no... not really... had some famous people in the cab. (remembering) I got this guy who makes lasers. Not regular lasers, not the big kind. Little lasers, pocket sized, small enough to clip your belt like a transistor radio, like a gun, you know. Like a ray gun. Zap.」

Travis Bickle:「I work a single, which means there's no replacement - no second man on the cab. Six to six, sometimes eight. Seventy-two hours a week.」
BETSY:「amazed) You mean you work seventy-two hours a week.」
Travis Bickle:「Sometimes 76 or 80. Sometimes I squeeze a few more hours in the morning. Eighty miles a day, a hundred miles a night.」
BETSY:「You must be rich.」
Travis Bickle:「big affectionate smile) it keeps ya busy.」
BETSY:「You know what you remind me of?」
Travis Bickle:「What?」

Travis Bickle:「I'm no pusher, Betsy. Honest. I never have pushed.
 I didn't mean that, Travis. Just the part about the contradiction.
 more at ease) Oh. Who was that again?」

Travis Bickle:「Yeah. Yes. I don't follow music too much.」

narrator:In the next block there are perhaps three, four fares - quick gas-up through this yellow light - brake sharply - check the action. The first: Tourist, nickel tipper - let the next guy pick them up. Let the second go also, the third - there's a live fare. Middle-aged LOCAL WOMAN: Short fare to the East Side, good tip.
 We pull to the curb, waiting for her to get in. It is a long wait - a Black STREET WALKER crosses in front of the cab. We focus on (as Travis would) a YOUNG COUPLE embracing in the distance.
 As we travel, we hear Travis' random thoughts about selecting fares and tips:
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) You work at night, you get an instinct. You can smell them. The big tippers, the stiffs, the trouble makers. Quarter is good tip for Manhattan. Queens is better, Brooklyn is best. go for the guys with suitcases. The rich are the worst tippers, hooks are lousy. Spooks are okay, but they don't live at Park Ave after all.」

Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I called Betsy again at her office, and she said maybe we could go to a movie together after she gets off work tomorrow. That's my day off. At first she hesitated, but I called her again and she agreed. (pause) Betsy. Betsy what? I forgot to ask her last name again. Damn. I've got to remember stuff like that.」
narrator:Travis' thoughts are with Betsy, as THREE MEN enter Travis' cab. He activates the meter and pulls off.
 MAN'S VOICE St. Regis Hotel.
 Travis checks the mirror. Scanning across the back seat, he recognizes the middle passenger. It is CHARLES PALANTINE, candidate for President. He must have left the Hotel shortly after BETSY.
 Tom, seated on the jump seat, checks his watch and speaks deferentially to Palantine:
TOM:「It's 12:30 now. You'll have fifteen minutes before the actual luncheon begins.」
narrator:Palantine nods as his assistant picks up the thread of an earlier conversation.
 ASSISTANT I don't think we have to worry about anybody here committing themselves until things start coming in from California.
 Travis recognizes his passenger. He puts out his cigarette.
Travis Bickle:「interrupting) Say, aren't you Charles Palantine, the candidate?」

Travis Bickle:「Well, I'm one of your biggest supporters. I tell everybody that comes in this cab that they should vote for you.」
PALANTINE:「pleased; glances to check Travis' license) Why, thank you Travis.」
Travis Bickle:「I'm sure you'll win, sir. Everybody I know is going to vote for you. (a beat) I was going to put one of your stickers on my taxi but the company said it was against their policy.」
PALANTINE:「pleasant) I'll tell you, Travis, I've learned more about this country sitting in taxi cabs than in the board room of General Motors.」
TOM:「joking) And in some other places too...」
narrator:Palantine, his Assistant and Tom all laugh. Palantine, quickly reassuming candiorial mien, speaks to Travis:
PALANTINE:「Travis, what single thing would you want the next President of this country to do most?」
Travis Bickle:「I don't know, sir. I don't follow political issues much.」
PALANTINE:「There must be something...」

Travis Bickle:「thinks) Well, he should clean up this city here. It's full of filth and scum. Scum and filth. It's like an open sewer. I can hardly take it. (MORE)」

Travis Bickle:「Some days I go out and smell it then I get headaches that just stay and never go away. We need a President that would clean up this whole mess. Flush it out.」
narrator:Palantine is not a Hubert Humphrey-type professional bullshitter, and Travis' intense reply stops him dead in his tracks. He is forced to fall back on a stock answer but tries to give it some meaning.
PALANTINE:「after a pause) I know what you mean, Travis, and it's not going to be easy. We're going to have to make some radical changes.」
Travis Bickle:「turning the wheel) Damn straight.」
narrator:EXT. BARCLAY HOTEL
 TRAVIS' taxi pulls up in front of the Barclay Hotel.
 PALANTINE and AIDE get out of the cab. SECOND AIDE stays in back seat a moment to pay TRAVIS.
 PALANTINE looks in front window of cab momentarily and nods goodbye to TRAVIS.
PALANTINE:「Nice talking to you, Travis.」
Travis Bickle:「calling back) Thank you, sir. You're a good man, sir.」

narrator:EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - EARLY MORNING
 TRAVIS, dressed to the teeth, walks brightly down the sidewalk. His face is frehsly shaved, his hair combed, his tie straightened.
 He pauses in a store window to check his appearance.
 Under his arm he carries the gift-wrapped Kristofferson record album.
 OUTSIDE PALANTINE HEADQUARTERS
 BETSY, smartly dressed, waves goodbye to another CAMPAIGN WORKER and walks out the door to greet him.
 A SHORT WHILE LATER, TRAVIS and BETSY are walking down Broadway toward Times Square. BETSY does not let their bodies touch as they walk although TRAVIS contemplates edging closer to her.
 Betsy has opened the package and is admiring the record - or, rather, Travis' sentiment behind giving it.
 Travis looks around himself with pride: This is a moment in his life - one of the few.
BETSY:「You didn't have to spend your money - ?」
Travis Bickle:「interrupting) He'll, what else can I do with it all?」
narrator:Betsy notices that the seal on the record has not been broken.
BETSY:「Travis, you haven't even played the record?」
Travis Bickle:「evasive) Yeah, well my stereo player is broke. But I'm sure the record is OK.」

Travis Bickle:「I don't follow music much. I'd like to though. (second thought) Honest.」
BETSY:「pointing to album) So you haven't heard this record yet?」
Travis Bickle:「No. (sly smile) I thought maybe you could play it for me on your player.」
narrator:Betsy's face backtracks a bit. Maybe she was wrong to go out with this fellow she doesn't know.
 She makes a polite laugh.
 LATER. Travis and Betsy are in TIMES SQUARE, turning the corner from Broadway to 42nd Street. Travis carries the album under his arm.
 They approach the garish marquee of a large midtown porno theatre advertising "The Swedish Marriage Manual". The box office is flanked on both sides by glass cages filled with explicit publicity stills. Offending portions have been blocked out with black tape.
 Travis steps over to the window and buys two $5 tickets. Betsy, befuddled, watches him. She doesn't know what to say. Travis returns with the tickets.
 Betsy still has not fully comprehended what is happening:
BETSY:「What are you doing?」
Travis Bickle:「innocent) I bought a couple of tickets.」
BETSY:「But this is a porno movie.」

Travis Bickle:「No, these are the kind that couples go to. They're not like the other movies. All kinds of couples go. Honest. I've seen them.」

narrator:Travis seems confused. He is so much part of his own world, he fails to comprehend another's world. Compared to the movies he sees, this is respectable. But then there's also something that Travis could not even acknowledge, much less admit: That he really wants to get this pure white girl into that dark porno theatre.
 Travis makes an awkward gesture to escort Betsy into the theatre. Betsy looks at the tickets, at the theatre, at Travis. She mentally shakes her head and walks toward the turnstile. She thinks to herself: "What the Hell. What can happen?" She's always been curious about these pictures anyway, and - like all women, no matter how intelligent - she's been raised not to offend her date. A perverse logic which applies even more in offsetting circumstances like these.
 INSIDE THE THEATER
 Travis escorts Betsy to an empty center row. Travis was right. Couples do go to films like this. There are at least six or seven other MEN with their bewigged "DATES".
 Travis settles into his familiar porno theatre slouch. Betsy looks curiously from side to side.
 ON SCREEN, a conservatively-dressed middle-aged woman is speaking in Swedish about importance of healthy sex life in a happy marriage. Subtitles translate her words. Then, without warning, there is a direct CUT to a couple copulating on a sterile table-like bed.
 Travis watches intently. The color, however, is slowly draining from Betsy's cheeks. One thought fills her mind: "What am I doing here?"
Travis Bickle:「to himself) Damn.」

BETSY:「What's wrong?」
Travis Bickle:「I forgot to get the Coca-Cola.」

narrator:ON THE SIDEWALK
 Travis catches up with her.
Travis Bickle:「Where are you going?」
BETSY:「I'm leaving.」
Travis Bickle:「What do you mean?」
narrator:Betsy looks at Travis, trying to understand him:
BETSY:「These are not the kind of movies I go to.」
Travis Bickle:「Well, I don't follow movies too much...」
BETSY:「You mean these are the only kind of movies you go to?」
narrator:The TICKET GIRL watches expressionlessly from the booth.
Travis Bickle:「This is sort of high class...」
BETSY:「I mean porno movies.」
Travis Bickle:「hesitant) Well... mostly...」
BETSY:「My God!」
Travis Bickle:「We can go to another movie if you like, I don't care. I got money. There's plenty...」

narrator:Travis is flabbergasted by Betsy's blunt language. His arm still gestures toward the marquees, his lips continue to move, but words do not come out.
 Unable to respond to Betsy's question, Travis picks up where he left off:
Travis Bickle:「there's plenty of movies around here. I haven't seen any of them, but I'm sure they're good.」
BETSY:「No, Travis. You're a sweet guy and all that, but I think this is it. I'm going home.」
Travis Bickle:「interrupting) You mean you don't want to go to a movie? (a beat) There's plenty of movies around here.」
BETSY:「No, I don't feel so good. We're just two very different kinds of people, that's all.」
Travis Bickle:「puzzled) Huh?」
BETSY:「It's very simple. You go your way, I'll go mine. Thanks anyway, Travis.」
Travis Bickle:「But... Betsy...」
BETSY:「I'm getting a taxi.」
narrator:She walks to the curb.
Travis Bickle:「following her) What about the record?」
BETSY:「Keep it.」

Travis Bickle:「Can I call you?」

narrator:Betsy looks for a cab.
Travis Bickle:「tender) Please, Betsy, I bought it for you.」
narrator:Betsy looks at his sad, sweet face and relents a bit.
BETSY:「All right, I'll accept the record.」
narrator:Betsy accepts the record, but quickly turns and hails a taxi.
BETSY:「Taxi!」
narrator:A taxi quickly pulls up.
 Travis feebly protests to no one in particular:
Travis Bickle:「But I got a taxi.」

narrator:Betsy gives instructions to CAB DRIVER, looks briefly back at Travis, then straight ahead. Taxi speeds off.
 Travis looks around helplessly: A cluster of PEDESTRIANS on the crowded street has stopped to watch the argument. Travis looks back at the woman in the porno theatre box office who has also been following the argument.
 CUT TO:
 INSIDE TRAVIS' APARTMENT
 Travis is sitting at the table. There are some new items on the table: His giant econo-sized bottle of vitamins, a giant econo-sized bottle of aspirins, a pint of apricot brandy, a partial loaf of cheap white bread.
 On the wall behind the table hang two more items: A gag sign reading "One of These Days I'm Gonna Get Organezizied" and an orange-and-black bumper sticker for Charles Palantine.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) May 8, 1972. My life has taken another turn again. The days move along with regularity...」

narrator:LATER THAT DAY: TRAVIS has pulled his straight-backed chair around and is watching his small portable TV, which rests on the upright melon crate.
 A cereal bowl partially filled with milk rests in his lap. Travis pours a couple shots of the apricot brandy into the bowl, dips folded chunks of white bread into the mixture, and eats them.
 Travis is watching early evening NEWS PROGRAM. TV background SOUND. Charles Palantine is being interviewed somewhere on the campaign trail.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) ... one day indistinguishable from the next, a long continuous chain, then suddenly - there is a change.」
narrator:Betsy is walking down a midtown street when Travis suddenly appears before her. He has been waiting.
 Travis tries to make conversation but she doesn't listen. She motions for him to go away and keeps on walking.
 Travis, protesting, follows.
 CUT TO:
 INT. BUILDING - DAY
 Travis speaks intensely into a wall pay phone.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I tried to call her several times.」
narrator:We hear Travis' Voice on the phone.
Travis Bickle:「smoking a cigarette) you feeling better? You said you didn't feel so good...
 V.O.) But after the first call, she would no longer come to the phone.」

Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I also sent flowers with no luck. I should not dwell on such things, but set them behind me. The smell of the flowers only made me sicker. The headaches got worse I think I've got stomach cancer. I should not complain so. "You're only as healthy as you feel."」
narrator:A drama is acted out at PALANTINE HEADQUARTERS: Travis, groggy and red-eyed from lack of sleep, walks into the campaign headquarters about NOONTIME.
 Betsy is standing near the rear of the office; she ducks from sight when she sees Travis enter. Travis' path is cut short by Tom's large-framed body. There is no live sound.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) I realize now how much she is like the others, so cold and distant. Many people are like that. They're like a union.」

Travis Bickle:「I'm off duty.」
narrator:PROFESSIONAL PASSENGER You mean you don't want to go out to Jackson Heights?
Travis Bickle:「No, I'm off duty.」
narrator:PROFESSIONAL PASSENGER Then how come your "Off Duty" light wasn't on.
 TRAVIS switches on the "Off Duty" light.
Travis Bickle:「It was on. (gesturing toward top of taxi) it just takes a while to warm up. Like a TV.」

narrator:TRAVIS waits impassively. The motor ticks away.
 After a long pause, the PASSENGER speaks:
YOUNG PASSENGER:「Cabbie, ya see that light up there on the seventh floor, three windows from this side of the building?」
narrator:CAMERA CLOSES IN on 417 Central Park West: TRACKING UP to the seventh floor, it moves three windows to the right.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) Yeah.」
narrator:A young WOMAN wearing a slip crosses in front of the light.
YOUNG PASSENGER:「O.S.) Ya see that woman there?」
Travis Bickle:「O.S.) Yeah.」

ANDY:「Hello Travis.」
narrator:Travis nods as the taxi speeds off.
 Dough-Boy slows down near an economy hotel. Not a flop house, but not do fancy they care what the guests do in the privacy of their rooms.
ANDY:「This is fine, Dough-Boy (to Travis) Pay Dough-Boy here.」
narrator:Travis pulls a twenty out of his pocket and gives it to Dough-Boy.
Travis Bickle:「bucks?」

narrator:Andy opens the suitcases: Stacked in grey packing foam are rows and rows of brand new hand guns.
Travis Bickle:「You got a .44 Magnum?」
ANDY:「That's an expensive gun.」
Travis Bickle:「I got money.」

ANDY:「The Magnum, you know, that's only if you want to splatter it against the wall. The movies have driven up the price of the Magnum anyway. Everybody wants them now. But the Wesson .38 - only $250 - and worth every dime of it. (he hefts the .38) Throw in a holster for $10.」
narrator:Travis hefts the nickel-plated .38, points it out the window.
ANDY:「Some of these guns are like toys, but a Smith and Wesson, man, you can hit somebody over the head with it and it will still come back dead on. Nothing beats quality. (pause) You interested in an automatic?」
Travis Bickle:「I want a .32.
 Revolver. And a palm gun. That .22 there.」
ANDY:「That's the Colt .25 - a fine little gun. Don't do a lot of damage, but it's as fast as the Devil. Handy little gun, you can carry it almost anywhere. I'll throw it in for another $125.」
narrator:Travis holds the .32 Revolver, hefts it, slips it under his belt and pulls his shirt over it. He turns from side to side, to see how it rides in his waist.
Travis Bickle:「How much for everything.」

ANDY:「The .32's $150 - and you're really getting a good deal now - and all together it comes to, ah, seven eighty-five for four pieces and a holster. He'll, I'll give you the holster, we'll make it seventy-five and you've got a deal - a good one.」
Travis Bickle:「How much to get a permit to carry?」

ANDY:「Well, you're talking big money now. I'd say at least five grand, maybe more, and it would take a while to check it out. The way things are going now $5.000 is probably low. You see, I try not to fool with the small-time crap. Too risky, too little bread. Say 6 G's, but if I get the permit it'll be as solid as the Empire State Building.」
Travis Bickle:「Nah, this'll be fine.」
ANDY:「You can't carry in a cab even with a permit - so why bother?」
Travis Bickle:「Is there a firing range around?」
ANDY:「Sure, here, take this card, go to this place and give 'em the card. They'll charge you, but there won't be any hassle.」
narrator:Travis pulls out a roll of crisp one hundred dollar bills and counts off eight.
ANDY:「You in Nam? Can't help but notice your jacket?」
Travis Bickle:「looking up) Huh?」
ANDY:「Vietnam? I saw it on your jacket. Where were you? Bet you got to handle a lot of weapons out there.」
narrator:Travis hands Andy the bills. Andy counts them and gives Travis a twenty and five.

Travis Bickle:「Yeah. I was all around. One hospital, then the next.」

Travis Bickle:「intensely) They'd never get me to go back. They'd have to shoot me first. (pause) You got anything to carry these in? (gestures to pistols)」

narrator:Travis is like a light switch: For long periods he goes along dark and silent, saying nothing; then suddenly, the current is turned on and the air is filled with the electricity of his personality. Travis' inner intensity sets Andy back a bit, but he quickly recovers.
ANDY:「Sure.」
narrator:Andy pulls a gym bag from under his bed. He wraps the gun in the sheet in the bag and zips it up. An identical gym bag can be partially seen under the bed. He hands Travis the bag.
ANDY:「You like ball games?」
Travis Bickle:「Huh?」
ANDY:「I can get you front and center. What do you like? I can get you Mets, Knicks, Rangers? Hell, I can get you the Mayor's box.」
Travis Bickle:「Nah. I ain't interested.」

ANDY:「Wait a second, Travis. I'll walk you out.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 SEVERAL WEEKS LATER. The face of TRAVIS' apartment has changed. The long, blank wall behind the table is now covered with tacked-up charts, pictures, newspaper-clippings, maps. CAMERA does not come close enough to discern the exact contents of these clippings.
 Travis is in C.U. in the middle of the floor doing push-ups. He is bareback, wearing only his jeans. There is a long scar across his left side.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) May 29, 1972. I must get in shape. Too much sitting has ruined my body. Twenty-five push-ups each morning, one hundred sit-ups, one hundred knee-bends. I have quit smoking.」
narrator:Travis, still bareback, passes his stiff arm through the flame of a gas burner without flinching a muscle.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) Total organization is necessary. Every muscle must be tight.」

narrator:INT. APARTMENT
 TRAVIS, now wearing an unfastened green plaid western shirt, sits at the table writing in his diary. The vial of bennies is on the table.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) My body fights me always. It won't work, it won't sleep, it won't shit, it won't eat.」

narrator:A SHORT WHILE LATER, TRAVIS is walking down the sidewalk near the taxi garage. His hands are in his jacket pockets, obscuring the slight bulge on his left side.
 TRAVIS turns into the box offfice of PORNO THEATER. He reaches into jacket pocket for money to purchase ticket and pulls out crumpled $20 bill. Seeing the $20 bill, he decides not to use it, and pays for ticket out of his wallet instead.
 TRAVIS walks past concession stand en route to the darkened theater auditorium. A YOUNG MAN is now sitting listlessly behind the concessions counter.
 INT. PORNO THEATER AUDITORIUM
 TRAVIS slouches down into his seat, his face glowing in the reflected light from the screen.
 FEMALE MOVIE VOICE (O.S.) Oh, come on, now, down, lick it, come on... (a beat) Mmm, that's good. Ahh, ahh, more ...
 TRAVIS averts his eyes as the action on screen becomes too graphic. Placing his stiffened right hand beside his eyes, TRAVIS can, by turning it inward, shut off or open up his field of vision by small degrees.
 MOVIE VOICE DIMINISHES, replaced by SOUND of TRAVIS' voice over.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) The idea had been growing in my brain ...」

Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) ... for some time. True Force. All the king's men cannot put it back together again.」

narrator:As the CAMERA reaches the end of its track, it finds TRAVIS, standing, his shirt open, but the mattress. He is wearing the empty holster, and the .44 is in his hand.
 In the SHOTS that follow TRAVIS gives the audience a lesson in gunmanship:
 TRAVIS practices fast-drawing the .38 Special from his holster and firing it.
 He hooks the .44 into his pants behind his back and practices withdrawing it. He holds the .44 firmly at an arm's length, tightening his forearm muscles.
 He has worked out a system of metal gliders taped to his inner forearm, whereby the Colt .25 can rest hidden behind the upper forearm until a spring near the elbow is activated, sending the .25 flying down the gliders into his palm. He has cut open his shirt to accomodate the gun mechanism and now checks in the mirror to see how well the gun is hidden.
 He straps an Army combat knife to his calf and cuts a slit in his jeans where the knife can be pulled out quickly.
 He now tries on various combinations of shirts, sweater and jacket in front of the mirror to see how well he can hide all the handguns he wishes to carry. Finally, wearing two western shirts, a sweater and jacket, he manages to obscure the location of all three guns, although he resembles a hunter bundled up against the Arctic winter.
 He sits at the table dum-dumming the .44 bullets -- cutting "x's" across the bullet heads.
 P.O.V.: he scans the objects of his room through the scope of the .38.
 TRAVIS stands in the middle of his apartment, staring at his PALANTINE wall. His eyes are glazed with introspection; he sees nothing but himself.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) Listen you screwheads: Here is a man ...」

narrator:The big furry animal drifts into his own world.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.)(CONTD) ... who wouldn't take it any more, a man who stood up against the scum, the cunts, the dogs, the filth. Here is ... (voice trails off)」

narrator:C.U. of diary: entry ends with words "Here is" followed by erratic series of dots.
 CUT TO:
 NIGHT: the taxis are roaming the slick streets.
 Sometimes after 2:00 a.m., TRAVIS pulls his cab to the curb near an all-night delicatessen in Spanish Harlem. The streets are relatively deserted.
 TRAVIS waves to STOREKEEPER as he walks past counter:
Travis Bickle:「Hey 'Melio.」

narrator:Spanish rhythm and blues blares from a cheap radio.
 TRAVIS walks over to dairy counter in rear of store, picks out a pint of chocolate milk, goes over to the open cooler and picks through various chilled prepackaged sandwiches. He overhears a VOICE as he looks at the sandwiches.
 When TRAVIS returns to the counter with the chocolate milk and a sandwich in one hand, he sees a YOUNG BLACK MAN holding a gun on 'Melio. The STICK-UP MAN is nervous, hopped-up, or both; he bounces on the balls of his cheap worn black tennis shoes -- a strung-out junkie on a desperation ride. The STICK-UP MAN, a thorough unprofessional, doesn't notice TRAVIS.
 MELIO watches the STICK-UP MAN closely, deciding what to do himself.
 STICK-UP MAN (shaking gun) Come on, man. Quick, quick, quick. Hand over that bread.
 It doesn't take TRAVIS long to decide what to do: without hesitation he pulls his .32 from his jacket pocket.
Travis Bickle:「Hey dude!」

narrator:The STICK-UP MAN, surprised, turns toward TRAVIS, finding only an exploding .32. The MAN's lower jaw bursts open with blood as he reels and crashes to the floor. There is no emotion on TRAVIS' face.
 As the STICK-UP MAN falls, 'MELIO leans over the counter, wielding his battered .38. He is about to fire when he realizes the MAN is already dead.
 MELIO, charged up, turns his gun toward TRAVIS, then, realizing the danger is over, lowers it again.
 MELIO Thanks, man. Figured I'd get him on the way out.
 TRAVIS sets his .32 on the counter.
Travis Bickle:「You're gonna have to cover me on this one, 'Melio. I can't stay for the cop show.」
narrator:MELIO You can't do that, Travis. You're my witness.
Travis Bickle:「The hell I can't. It's no sweat for you. What is this for you, number five?」
narrator:MELIO smiles and holds up four fingers:
 MELIO No, only four. (shrug) Alright, Travis, I'll do what I can.
Travis Bickle:「Thanks a lot.」

narrator:The TV, still broadcasting the hospital room melodrama, rocks back and forth.
 TRAVIS pushes the TV farther and farther until finally the inevitable happens -- the crate tips backward, sending the portable TV crashing to the floor.
 There is a short flash and the TV screen turns white.
 TRAVIS, realizing what he has done, bends over, turns the TV upright on the floor, fiddles with the knobs, slaps it, and tries to reactivate the vanished image. TRAVIS' efforts are futile; a tube has broken, and the TV will not come back to life.
Travis Bickle:「to himself) Damn, damn.」

WIZARD:「She was just a kid. Stoned, you know.」
narrator:Travis, carrying his coffee and pastries, walks over to their table. Charlie T spots him.
CHARLIE T:「Hiya Killer.」
narrator:Charlie forms his hand into a pistol, cocks and fires, making the SOUND, "Pgghew." TRAVIS nods.
WIZARD:「You're getting a rep, Travis.」
narrator:TRAVIS sits down and the other CABBIES resume their conversation.
CHARLIE T:「Got the five you owe me, Killer?」
narrator:TRAVIS reaches into his pocket and pulls out a roll of small denomination bills. The crumpled $20 bill falls onto the table. TRAVIS stares at it a moment. He unfolds a five, gives it to CHARLIE T, then picks up the crumpled $20 and puts it back into his jacket pocket.
WIZARD:「O.S.) (to Travis) What's the action around?」
Travis Bickle:「Slow.」

narrator:They all laugh.
CHARLIE T:「Hell, I know'd you to do worse.」
narrator:DOUGH-BOY Least I'm no airport rat. I work the whole town.
CHARLIE T:「chuckling) It's a living.」
narrator:WIZARD gets up to leave.
WIZARD:「Well, I'm shovin' on.」
narrator:WIZARD gets up, nods and walks toward the CASHIER. After a second's thought, TRAVIS calls to him:
Travis Bickle:「Hey Wiz, just a second. I wanna talk to you.」
narrator:WIZARD waits for TRAVIS as he takes a final gulp of coffee and catches up with him. CHARLIE T calls to TRAVIS as they go:
CHARLIE T:「See ya, Killer. Don't forget your pea shooter.」
narrator:CHARLIE T cocks his imaginary gun again, fires and chuckles.
 WIZARD and TRAVIS nod goodbye, pay the CASHIER and exit.
 EXT.
 TRAVIS follows WIZARD out onto the sidewalk. TRAVIS follows WIZARD as he walks toward his cab. He has something on his mind, something he wants to talk to WIZARD about.
Travis Bickle:「walking) Hey Wiz.」

narrator:WIZARD has no visible reaction. A flash of controlled anger crosses TRAVIS' face. He stares at the BOY with the poised key. It is the same look that crossed his face in the Harlem Deli. We are reminded with a jolt that the killer lies just beneath TRAVIS' surface.
 The BLACK PUNK must instinctively realize this too, because he makes a cocky show of putting the key back into his pocket and be-bopping around TRAVIS and WIZARD.
 The YOUNG MEAN-STREETERS continue down the street and TRAVIS turns back to WIZARD.
 Across the street, in the background, a JUNKIE nestles in a doorway.
Travis Bickle:「hesitant) Wiz?」
WIZARD:「Yeah?」
Travis Bickle:「Look, ah, we never talked much, you and me...」
WIZARD:「Yeah?」
Travis Bickle:「I wanted to ask you something, on account you've been around so long.」
WIZARD:「Shoot. They don't call me the Wizard for nothing.」
Travis Bickle:「Well, I just, you know...」
WIZARD:「Things got ya down?」
Travis Bickle:「Real down.」

Travis Bickle:「Sometimes it gets so I just don't know what I'm gonna do. I get some real crazy ideas, you know? Just go out and do somethin.」
WIZARD:「The taxi life, you mean.」
Travis Bickle:「Yeah.」
WIZARD:「nods) I know.」
Travis Bickle:「Like do anything, you know.」
WIZARD:「Travis, look, I dig it. Let me explain. You choose a certain way of life. You live it. It becomes what you are. I've been a hack 27 years, the last ten at night. Still don't own my own cab. I guess that's the way I want it. You see, that must be what I am.」
narrator:A police car stops across the street. TWO PATROLMEN get out and roust the JUNKIE from his doorway.
WIZARD:「continuing) Look, a person does a certain thing and that's all there is to it. It becomes what he is. Why fight it? What do you know? How long you been a hack, a couple months? You're like a peg and you get dropped into a slot and you got to squirm and wiggle around a while until you fit in.」

Travis Bickle:「pause) That's just about the dumbest thing I ever heard, Wizard.」

Travis Bickle:「Neither do I, I guess.」
WIZARD:「You fit in. It's lonely, it's rough at first. But you fit in. You got no choice.
 Yeah. Sorry, Wizard.
 Don't worry, Killer. You'll be all right. (a beat) I seen enough to know.」
Travis Bickle:「Thanks.」

narrator:Whenever TRAVIS confronts a symbol of authority, he becomes like a young boy. This time is no exception, although one suspects there is a plan hatching beneath that boyish exterior. The SECRET SERVICE MAN, for his part, is about as talkative as the Sphinx.
Travis Bickle:「Are you a Secret Service Man?」
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「indifferently) Why do you ask?」
Travis Bickle:「I've seen a lot of suspicious- looking people around here today.」
narrator:SECRET SERVICE MAN glances at TRAVIS momentarily.
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「Who?」
Travis Bickle:「Oh, lots. I don't know where they all are now. There used to be one standing over there. (points)」

narrator:SECRET SERVICE MAN's gaze follows TRAVIS' finger for a second, then return to TRAVIS.
Travis Bickle:「CONTD) Is it hard to get to be a Secret Service Man?」
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「Why?」
Travis Bickle:「I kinda thought I might make a good one. I'm very observant.」
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「Oh?」
Travis Bickle:「I was in the Army too. (beat) And I'm good with crowds.」

SECRET SERVICE MAN:「Is that so?」
Travis Bickle:「What kind of guns do you guys use? .38's?」
narrator:The SECRET SERVICE MAN decides it's time to get some more information on TRAVIS:
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「Look, um, if you give me your name and address, we'll send you the information on how to apply.」
Travis Bickle:「You would, huh?」
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「taking out notepad) Sure.」
Travis Bickle:「My name is Henry Krinkle -- that's with a "K." K-R-I-N-K-L-E. I live at 13 1/2 Hopper Avenue, Fair Lawn, New Jersey. Zip code 07410. (a beat) Got that?」
SECRET SERVICE MAN:「Sure, Henry. I got it all. We'll send you all the stuff all right.」
Travis Bickle:「Great, hey. Thanks a lot.」
narrator:The SECRET SERVICE MAN motions to a SECRET SERVICE PHOTOGRAPHER to catch a picture of TRAVIS. TRAVIS notices this, and quickly slips away into the CROWD.
 CUT TO:
 TRAVIS sits at his desk in his APARTMENT, writing. He wears jeans, western shirt and empty holster.

Travis Bickle:「V.O.) June 11. Eight rallies in six more days. The time is coming.」

narrator:CUT TO TRAVIS: no expression. PALANTINE's words are barely distinguishable from a block away:
PALANTINE:「in distance) ... pit black against white, young against old, sow anger, disunity and suspicion -- and all in the name of the "good of the country." Well, their game is over. (applause) All their games are over. Now is the time to stand up against such foolishness, propaganda and demagoguery. Now is the time for one man to stand up and accept his neighbor, for one man to give in order that all might receive. Is unity and love of common good such a lost thing?」
narrator:ALL LIVE SOUND CEASES as TRAVIS' narration begins. He is reading from a letter or card he has just written.
 As he speaks we see SHOTS of PALANTINE speaking, a seated row of YOUNG BLACK PALANTINE red, white and blue bedecked CHEERLEADERS, SECRET SERVICE AGENTS examining the CROWD and so forth. These SHOTS have no direct relationship to the narration.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) (reading) Dear Father and Mother, June is the month, I remember, which brings not only your wedding anniversary, but also Father's Day and Mother's birthday. I'm sorry I can't remember the exact dates, but I hope this card will take care of all of them. I'm sorry I again can not send you my address like I promised to last year, but the sensitive nature of my work for the Army demands utmost secrecy. I know you will understand. I am healthy and well and making lots of money. I have been going with a girl for several months and I know you would be proud if you could see her. (MORE)」

Travis Bickle:「V.O.; Her name is Betsy, but I can tell you no more than that. (interrupted)」

narrator:As TRAVIS reads third paragraph, a POLICEMAN is seen walking from behind TRAVIS' taxi to his window.
 The POLICEMAN's voice come during a pause in the narration. LIVE SOUND RESUMES.
 POLICEMAN (standing near window) Hey, cabbie, you can't park here.
Travis Bickle:「penitent) Sorry, officer.」
narrator:POLICEMAN You waiting for a fare?
 POLICEMAN leans his head in window, inspecting the cab. As he does, TRAVIS slides his right hand into the left side of his jacket, ready to draw his revolver.
Travis Bickle:「No, officer.」
narrator:POLICEMAN All right, move it.
 TRAVIS starts up his taxi and drives off.
 LIVE SOUND again CEASES as TRAVIS resumes reading letter as taxi drives away.
 As TRAVIS reads final paragraph, scene CUTS TO INT. APARTMENT where TRAVIS sits at his table.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) (resuming reading) I hope this card finds you all well, as it does me. I hope no one has died. Don't worry about me. One day there will be a knock on the door and it will be me.」

Travis Bickle:「shy) Hello.」
IRIS:「You looking for some action?」
Travis Bickle:「Well...I guess so.」
IRIS:「eyeing him) All right. (a beat) You see that guy over there? (nods) His name is Sport. Go talk to him. I'll wait here.」
narrator:Travis' eyes follow Iris' nod until they reach Sport, standing in a doorway in his lime green jacket. Travis walks toward him.
 Sport, a thirtiesh white greaser, has the affections of a black pimp. His hips are jiving, his fingers softly snapping. He sings to him self, "Going to the chapel, gonna get married..." His complexion is sallow; his eyes cold and venal. He could only seem romantic to a confused underaged runaway.
Travis Bickle:「You name Sport?」
narrator:Sport immediately takes Travis for an undercover cop. He extends his crosses wrists as if to be handcuffed.
SPORT:「Here, officer, take me in. I'm clean. I didn't do it. Got a ticket once in Jersey. That's all. Honest, officer.」
Travis Bickle:「Your name Sport?」
SPORT:「Anything you say, officer.」

Travis Bickle:「I'm no cop. (looks back at Iris) I want some action.」

SPORT:「I saw. $20 fifteen minutes. $30 half hour.」
Travis Bickle:「Shit.」
SPORT:「Take it or leave it.」
narrator:TRAVIS digs in his pocket for money.
SPORT:「No, not me. There'll be an elderly gent to take the bread.」
narrator:TRAVIS turns to walk away.
SPORT:「Catch you later, Copper.」
narrator:TRAVIS freezes, not saying anything. He turns back toward SPORT.
Travis Bickle:「I'm no cop.」
SPORT:「Well, if you are, it's entrapment already.」
Travis Bickle:「I'm hip.」

narrator:At the far end of the darkened corridor sits a huge OLD MAN. His face is obscured by shadow. TRAVIS is about to enter the room when the OLD MAN speaks up:
OLD MAN:「Hey cowboy!」
narrator:TRAVIS turns his head toward the OLD MAN who has stood up and is advancing toward him.
OLD MAN:「motioning to TRAVIS' jacket) The rod. (a beat) Gimme the rod, cowboy.」
narrator:TRAVIS hesitates a moment, uncertain what to do. The OLD MAN reaches in TRAVIS' jacket and pulls out the .38 Special.
OLD MAN:「This ain't Dodge City, cowboy. You don't need no piece. (glances at watch) I'm keepin' time.」
narrator:TRAVIS enters No. 2 with IRIS.
 TRAVIS looks around IRIS' room: although dimly lit, the room is brightly decorated. There is an orange shag carpet, deep brown walls and an old red velvet sofa. On the walls are posters of Mick Jagger, Bob Dylan and Peter Fonda. A Neil Young album is playing on a small phonograph.
 This is where IRIS lives: it bears the individual touch of a young girl.
 IRIS lights a cigarette, takes a single puff and places it in an ashtray on the bedstand.
Travis Bickle:「Why you hang around with them greasers?」

IRIS:「A girl needs protection.」
Travis Bickle:「Yeah. From the likes of them.」

narrator:IRIS sits on the edge of the bed and removes her hat and coat. She takes off her blue-tinted sunglasses--her last defense. Without the paraphernalia of adulthood, Iris looks like a little girl she is. About 14, 15.
Travis Bickle:「What's your name?」
IRIS:「Easy.」
Travis Bickle:「That ain't much of a name.」
IRIS:「It's easy to remember. Easy Lay.」
Travis Bickle:「What's your real name?」
IRIS:「I don't like my real name.」
Travis Bickle:「insistent) What's your real name?」
IRIS:「Iris.」
Travis Bickle:「That's a nice name.」
IRIS:「That's what you think.」
narrator:IRIS unbuttons her shirt, revealing her small pathetic breasts -- two young doves hiding from a winter wind. TRAVIS is unnerved by her partial nudity.
Travis Bickle:「Don't you remember me? Button your shirt.」
narrator:IRIS buttons only the bottom button of her shirt.
IRIS:「examining him) Why? Who are you?」
Travis Bickle:「I drive a taxi. You tried to get away one night. Remember?」

IRIS:「No.」
Travis Bickle:「You tried to run away in my taxi but your friend -- Sport -- wouldn't let you.」
IRIS:「I don't remember.」
Travis Bickle:「It don't matter. I'm gonna get you outta here. (looks toward door)」

IRIS:「We better make it, or Sport'll get mad. How do you want to make it?」
Travis Bickle:「pressured) I don't want to make it. I came here to get you out.」

narrator:TRAVIS pushes her hand away. He sits beside her on the edge of the bed.
Travis Bickle:「taking her by the shoulders) Can't you listen to me? Don't you want to get out of here?」
IRIS:「Why should I want to get out of here? This is where I live.」
Travis Bickle:「exasperated) But you're the one that wanted to get away. You're the one that came into my cab.」
IRIS:「I musta been stoned.」
Travis Bickle:「Do they drug you?」

IRIS:「reproving) Oh, come off it, man.」
narrator:IRIS tries to unzip TRAVIS' fly. This only unnerves TRAVIS more: sexual contact is something he's never really confronted.
Travis Bickle:「Listen...」
IRIS:「Don't you want to make it? (a beat) Can't you make it?」
narrator:IRIS works on TRAVIS' crotch OFF CAMERA. He bats her hand away.
Travis Bickle:「distraught) I want to help you.」
narrator:TRAVIS is getting increasingly panicked, but IRIS only thinks this is part of his particular thing and tries to overcome it.
IRIS:「catching on) You can't make it, can you? (a beat) I can help you.」
narrator:IRIS lowers her head to go down on TRAVIS. TRAVIS, seeing this, jumps up in panic.
 TRAVIS stands several feet from IRIS. His fly is still open, and the white of his underwear shows through his jeans. He is starting to come apart.
Travis Bickle:「Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it! Fuck it!」
IRIS:「confused) You can do it in my mouth.」

Travis Bickle:「Don't you understand anything?」

narrator:There is a moment of silence. IRIS puts her arm around his shoulder.
IRIS:「You don't have to make it, mister.」
narrator:TRAVIS rests a moment, collecting himself. Finally, he says:
Travis Bickle:「slowly) Do you understand why I came here?」
IRIS:「I think so. I tried to get into your cab one night, and now you want to come and take me away.」
Travis Bickle:「Don't you want to go?」
IRIS:「I can leave anytime I want.」
Travis Bickle:「But that one night?」
IRIS:「I was stoned. That's why they stopped me. When I'm not stoned, I got no place else to go. They just protect me from myself.」
narrator:There is a pause. TRAVIS smiles and shrugs apologetically. TRAVIS looks at Iris' cigarette. It's burning down to the butt.
Travis Bickle:「Well, I tried.」
IRIS:「compassionate) I understand, mister. It means something, really.」
Travis Bickle:「getting up) Can I see you again?」
IRIS:「That's not hard to do.」

Travis Bickle:「No, I mean really. This is nothing for a person to do.」

IRIS:「Sure. All right. We'll have breakfast. I get up about one o'clock. Tomorrow.」
Travis Bickle:「thinking) Well tomorrow noon there's a... I got a...」
narrator:IRIS is interfering with TRAVIS' assassination schedule.
IRIS:「Well, you want to or not?」
Travis Bickle:「deciding) O.K. It's a date. I'll see you here, then.」
narrator:TRAVIS turns; IRIS smiles.
TOM:「Oh, Iris?」
IRIS:「Yes?」
TOM:「My name's Travis.」
IRIS:「Thank you, Travis.」
Travis Bickle:「So long, Iris. (a beat) Sweet Iris. (smiles)」

narrator:TRAVIS reaches in his jacket pocket and pulls out the familiar crumpled $20 bill. He makes a big show of stuffing the wrinkled bill into the OLD MAN's hand. The OLD MAN doesn't understand the significance of it.
Travis Bickle:「restrained anger) Here's the twenty bucks, old man. You better damn well spend it right.」

narrator:Outside here environment, Iris seems the more pathetic. She seems unsure, schizy, unable to hold a subject for more than thirty seconds. Her gestures are too broad, her voice too mannered. We sympathize with Travis' paternal respect. This girl is in trouble.
IRIS:「and after that Sport and I just started hanging out...」
Travis Bickle:「Where is home?」
narrator:Iris removes her large blue-tinted sunglasses and fishes through her bag for another pair.
IRIS:「I got so many sunglasses. I couldn't live without my shades, man. I must have twelve pair of shades.」
narrator:She finds a pink-tinted pair and puts them on.
Travis Bickle:「Where?」
IRIS:「Pittsburgh.」
Travis Bickle:「I ain't ever been there, but it don't seem like such a bad place.」
IRIS:「voice rising) Why do you want me to go back to my parents? They hate me. Why do you think I split? There ain't nothin there.」
Travis Bickle:「But you can't live like this. It's hell. Girls should live at home.」

Travis Bickle:「ignoring her question) Young girls are supposed to dress up, go to school, play with boys, you know, that kinda stuff.」
narrator:Iris places a large gob of jam on her unbuttered toast and folds the bread over like a hotdog.
IRIS:「God, you are square.」
Travis Bickle:「releasing pent-up tension) At least I don't walk the streets like a skunk pussy. I don't screw and fuck with killers and junkies.」
narrator:IRIS motions him to lower his voice.
IRIS:「Who's a killer?」
Travis Bickle:「That fella "Sport" looks like a killer to me.」
IRIS:「He never killed nobody. He's a Libra.」
Travis Bickle:「Huh?」
IRIS:「I'm a Libra too. That's why we get along so well.」
Travis Bickle:「He looks like a killer.」
IRIS:「I think Cancer's make the best lovers. My whole family are air signs.」
Travis Bickle:「He shoots dope too.」

Travis Bickle:「He's worse than an animal. Jail's too good for scum like that.」
narrator:There is a brief silence. Iris mind continued to whirl at 78 rpms. She seems to have three subjects on her mind at a time. She welcomes this opportunity to unburden herself.
IRIS:「Rock music died in 1970, that's what I think. Before that it was fantastic. I can tell you that. Everybody was crashing, hanging out at the Fillmore. Me and my girlfriend Ann used to go up the fire escape, you know? It was unbelievable. Rock Stars everywhere. That Airplane--that's my group, man. All Libras. But now everybody's split or got sick or busted. I think I'll move to one of those communes in Vermont, you know? That's where all the smart ones went. I stayed here.」
Travis Bickle:「I never been to a commune. I don't know. I saw pictures in a magazine, and it didn't look very clean to me.」
IRIS:「Why don't you come to a commune with me?」
Travis Bickle:「Me? I could never go to a place like that.」
IRIS:「Why not?」
Travis Bickle:「hesitant) I... I don't get along with people like that.」

IRIS:「You a scorpion? That's it. You're a scorpion. I can tell.」
Travis Bickle:「Besides, I've got to stay here.」

IRIS:「Why?」
Travis Bickle:「I've got something important to do. I can't leave.」
IRIS:「What's so important?」
Travis Bickle:「I can't say -- it's top secret. I'm doing something for the Army. The cab thing is just part time.」
IRIS:「You a narc?」
Travis Bickle:「Do I look like a narc?」
IRIS:「Yeah.」
narrator:TRAVIS breaks out in his big infectious grin, and IRIS joins his laughter.
IRIS:「God, I don't know who's weirder, you or me.」
Travis Bickle:「pause) What are you going to do about Sport and that old bastard?」
IRIS:「Just leave'em. There's plenty of other girls.」
Travis Bickle:「You just gonna leave 'em?」
IRIS:「astonished) What should I do? Call the cops?」
Travis Bickle:「Cops don't do nothin.」

Travis Bickle:「You can't leave 'em to do the same to other girls. You should get rid of them.」
IRIS:「How?」
Travis Bickle:「shrugs) I don't know. Just should, though. (a beat) Somebody should kill 'em. Nobody'd miss 'em.」
IRIS:「taken back) God. I know where they should have a commune for you. They should have a commune for you at Bellevue.」
Travis Bickle:「apologetic/sheepish) I'm sorry, Iris. I didn't mean that.」
IRIS:「You're not much with girls, are you?」
Travis Bickle:「thinks) Well, Iris, I look at it this way. A lot of girls come into my cab, some of them very beautiful. And I figure all day long men have been after them: trying to touch them, talk to them, ask them out. And they hate it. So I figure the best I can do for them is not bother them at all. So I don't say a thing. I pretend I'm not even there. I figure they'll understand that and appreciate me for it.」

Travis Bickle:「I think you should go home, but otherwise I think you should go. It would be great for you. You have to get away from here. The city's a sewer, you gotta get out of it.」
narrator:Mumbling something about her "shades" again, Iris fishes through her bag until she comes up with another 99¢ pair of sunglasses and puts them on. She likes these better, she decides.
IRIS:「Sure you don't want to come with me?」
Travis Bickle:「I can't. Otherwise, I would.」
IRIS:「I sure hate to go alone...」
Travis Bickle:「I'll give you the money to go. I don't want you to take any from those guys.」
IRIS:「You don't have to.」
Travis Bickle:「I want to -- what else can I do with my money? (thinks) You may not see me again--for a while.」
IRIS:「What do you mean?」
narrator:CLOSE on C.U. of TRAVIS:
Travis Bickle:「My work may take me out of New York.」

narrator:He sets down one gun, picks up the next, then the next. Quickly reloading, he fires again.
 The targets spin and dance under his barrage. The piercing sound of GUNSHOTS ring through the air.
 CUT TO:
 INT. APARTMENT
 TRAVIS is again writing at the table. His western shirt is open, exposing his bare chest.
 A note of despair and doom has entered into TRAVIS' normally monotone narration voice: this will be the last entry in his diary.
Travis Bickle:「V.O.) My whole life has pointed in one direction. I see that now. There never has been any choice for me.」
narrator:CUT TO:
 LENGTHY P.O.V. SHOT from TRAVIS' taxi: we see New York's nightlife as TRAVIS sees it. CAMERA TRACKS down midtown sidewalks in SLIGHTLY SLOW MOTION. There we see:
 COUPLES, walking in SLOWING MOTION, young couples, middle- aged couples, old couples, hookers and johns, girlfriends, boyfriends, business friends -- the whole world matched up in pairs, and TRAVIS left wandering alone in the night.
 Others would notice the breasts, the asses, the faces, but not TRAVIS: he notices the girl's hand that rubs the hair on her boyfriend's neck, the hand that hangs lightly on his shoulder, the nuzzling kiss in the ear.

Travis Bickle:「V.O.) (CONTD) Loneliness has followed me all my life. The life of loneliness pursues me wherever I go: in bars, cars, coffee shops, theaters, stores, sidewalks. There is no escape. I am God's lonely man.」

Travis Bickle:「V.O.) (CONTINUED) I am not a fool. I will no longer fool myself. I will no longer let myself fall apart, become a joke and object of ridicule. I know there is no longer any hope. I cannot continue this hollow, empty fight. I must sleep. What hope is there for me?」

narrator:INTERCUT: SPORT stands in his doorway on the LOWER EAST SIDE shot with LONG DISTANCE LENS. It is EARLY EVENING.
 INTERCUT: A pudgy middle-aged white PRIVATE COP walks up to SPORT. The two men laugh, slap each other on the back and exchange a soul shake. They discuss a little private business and the PRIVATE COP walks off in the direction of IRIS' apartment.
 TRAVIS straps on holster and fits the .38 Special into it.
 INTERCUT: PRIVATE COP walks down block.
 TRAVIS hooks the huge Magnum into the back of his belt. He puts on his Army jacket and walks out the door.
 INTERCUT: PRIVATE COP turns up darkened stairway to IRIS' apartment.
 NIGHT has fallen: TRAVIS' taxi careens down 10th Ave. He speeds, honks, accelerates quickly. The glare of speeding yellow and red lights flash through the night.
 TRAVIS' P.O.V.: PEDESTRIAN attempts to flag down TRAVIS' taxi, but quickly steps back up on the curb when he sees TRAVIS has no intention of stopping for anything.
 INTERCUT: SPORT maintains his post in the dark doorway. He waves to a GIRL who passes, and she waves back.
 TRAVIS' taxi screeches to a stop and parks obliquely against the curb.
 CUT TO:
 TRAVIS walks down the block to the doorway where SPORT stands. CAMERA TRACKS with TRAVIS.
 Without slowing, TRAVIS walks up to SPORT and puts his arm on his shoulder in a gesture of friendliness.
Travis Bickle:「Hey, Sport. How are things?」

SPORT:「shrugs) O.K., cowboy.」
Travis Bickle:「needling him) How are things in the pimp business, hey Sport?」

SPORT:「What's going on?」
Travis Bickle:「I'm here to see Iris.」
SPORT:「Iris?」
narrator:TRAVIS pushes SPORT back into the dark recesses of the corridor.
SPORT:「Wha -- ?」
Travis Bickle:「Yeah, Iris. You know anybody by that name?」
SPORT:「No. (beat) Hillbilly, you'd better get your wise ass outa here and quick, or you're gonna be in trouble.」
narrator:TRAVIS is being propelled by an inner force, a force which takes him past the boundaries of reason and self-control.
Travis Bickle:「restrained anger) You carry a gun?」
narrator:SPORT looks into TRAVIS' eyes, saying nothing: he realizes the seriousness of the situation.
 TRAVIS pulls his .38 Special and holds it on SPORT, pushing him even further back against the wall.
Travis Bickle:「Get it.」
SPORT:「submissive) Hey, mister, I don't know what's going on here. This don't make any sense.」
Travis Bickle:「demanding) Show it to me.」

narrator:TRAVIS sticks his .38 into SPORT's gut and discharges it. There is a muffled blast, followed by a muted scream of pain.
Travis Bickle:「Now suck on that.」

narrator:TRAVIS struggles up and collapses on the red velvet sofa, his blood-soaked body blending with the velvet.
 IRIS retreats in fright against the far wall.
 First uniformed POLICE OFFICER rushes in room, drawn gun in hand. Other POLICEMEN can be heard running up the stairs.
 TRAVIS looks helplessly up at the OFFICER. He forms his bloody hand into a pistol, raises it to his forehead and, his voice croaking in pain, makes the sound of a pistol discharging.
Travis Bickle:「Pgghew! Pgghew!」

narrator:Near the entrance, TRAVIS and WIZARD stand in the light talking.
 TRAVIS' hair is almost fully grown back to its normal length. TRAVIS wears the same clothes -- cowboy boots, jeans, western shirt, Army jacket -- but he isn't wearing a gun. There is a thick scar on the left side of his neck.
 Wizard is speaking.
WIZARD:「A private-owner wanted to swap wheels. Now my tires were brand new. "Give me a couple days," I says.」
narrator:CHARLIE T. parks his cab in line and walks toward TRAVIS and WIZARD.
CHARLIE T:「Howdy Wizard, Killer.」
narrator:CHARLIE T. points his pistol/finger at TRAVIS, fires, says "Pow" and laughs.
CHARLIE T:「CONTD) (casual joking) Don't mess with the Killer.」
Travis Bickle:「smiles) Hey Charlie T.」
WIZARD:「Howsit, Charlie? (pause) Hey Travis, I think you gota fare.」
narrator:They all turn. P.O.V. of DOORMAN closing rear door of TRAVIS' taxi.
Travis Bickle:「Shit. (runs off)」

narrator:FEMALE VOICE 34 East 56th Street.
 TRAVIS recognizes the voice. He looks in the rear-view mirror: It is BETSY.
 TRAVIS says nothing: he heads toward 56th Street.
 After a silence, BETSY speaks:
BETSY:「Hello, Travis.」
Travis Bickle:「Hello, Betsy.」
narrator:There is an uneasy pause.
Travis Bickle:「I see where Palantine got the nomination.」
BETSY:「Yes. It won't be long now. Seventeen days.」
Travis Bickle:「Well, I hope he wins.」
narrator:There is another pause.
BETSY:「concerned) How are you, Travis? I read about you in the papers.」
Travis Bickle:「Oh, I got over that. It was nothing, really. The papers always blow these things up. (a beat) A little stiffness. That'll go away. I just sleep more, that's all.」
narrator:EXT.
 TRAVIS' taxi pulls up to 34 East 56th Street.
Travis Bickle:「Here we are.」

Travis Bickle:「protesting) No, no, please. This fare's on me. Please.」
BETSY:「Thank you, Travis.」
narrator:BETSY gets out of the cab and stands by the right front window, which is open.
 TRAVIS prepares to drive away.
BETSY:「Travis?」
Travis Bickle:「Yeah.」
BETSY:「Maybe I'll see you again sometime, huh?」
Travis Bickle:「thin smile) Sure.」
