" Elements of Harmony:「See ' Mare in the Moon ' ? " But that 's just an old ponies ' tale .」
Twilight Sparkle:「" ... She will bring about nighttime eternal ! " It 's imperative that the princess is told right away .」
( Spike burps ) Twilight:「I knew she would want to take immediate action .」
Spike:「( reading ) " My dear Twilight , there 's more to a young pony 's life than studying . Make some friends . "」
narration:Pinkie Pie gasps
Twilight Sparkle:「All the ponies in this town are CRAZY !」
narration:I hope the princess was right ...
Rarity:「She 's GONE !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh no ... Nightmare Moon !」
narration:evil laughter , peals of thunder
 theme song begins
 My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」

Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」
All:「And magic makes it all complete , yeah ( My Little Pony ) Do you know , you 're all my very best friends」
narration:evil laughter , peals of thunder
 Seize her ! Only she knows where the princess is ! Stand back , you foals !
 evil laughter , peals of thunder
Rainbow Dash:「Come back here !」
narration:Nighttime ? Forever ?
 Spike groans sleepily
 We got ta stop Nightmare ! You 've been up all night , Spike . You are a BABY dragon , after all .
( crash ) Twilight:「Elements , Elements , Elements ... Ugh ! How can I stop Nightmare Moon without the Elements of Harmony ? ! And just what ARE the Elements of Harmony ? And how did YOU know about Nightmare Moon , huh ? Are you a spy ? !」
Rainbow Dash:「Whoa !」
Applejack:「Simmer down , Sally . She ai n't no spy . But she sure knows what 's goin' on ... don'tcha , Twilight ? I read all about the prediction of Nightmare Moon . Some mysterious objects called the Elements of Harmony are the only things that can stop her , but I do n't know what they are , where to find them , I do n't even know what they do !」

Pinkie Pie:「" The Elements of Harmony」
Twilight Sparkle:「How did you find that ? !" There are six Elements of Harmony , but only five are known」
All:「The Everfree Forest ? !」
narration:spooky theremin music
 Whee ! Let 's GO ! Not so fast . Look , I appreciate the offer , but I 'd really rather do this on my own .
Applejack:「No can do , sugarcube . We sure ai n't lettin ' any friend of ours go into THAT creepy place alone . We 're stickin ' to you like caramel on a candy apple .」
narration:all voicing agreement
Pinkie Pie:「Especially if there 's candy apples in there !
 What ? Those things are GOOD .」
narration:sighs
Twilight Sparkle:「So , none of you have been in here before ?」
Rarity:「Ugh ! Heavens , no !
 Just look at it ! ( squealing ) It 's dreadful !」
Applejack:「And it ai n't natural . Folks say it do n't work the same way as Equestria .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( apprehensively ) What 's that supposed to mean ?」
Rainbow Dash:「( spooky vibrato ) Nopony knows !」

narration:You know why ?
Applejack:「Rainbow , quit it !」
Rainbow Dash:「... 'cause every pony who 's ever come in has never ... come ... OUT !」
narration:ground rumbling , ponies screaming
Rainbow Dash:「Fluttershy ! Quick !」
Fluttershy:「Ohmygoodness , ohmygoodness ...」
narration:screaming
 Twilight screaming , rocks rolling down cliff face
Applejack:「Hold on ! I 'm - a comin ' !」
narration:hooves scraping cliff
Twilight Sparkle:「Applejack ! What do I do ? !」
narration:Let go . Are you CRAZY ? ! No I ai n't . I promise you 'll be safe . That 's not true ! Now , listen here . What I 'm sayin ' to you is the honest truth . Let go , and you 'll be safe .
 screams
 Twilight sighs with relief
 Twilight yelps
 Applejack 's hooves clop
Fluttershy:「Sorry , girls . I 'm not used to carrying more than a bunny or two .」
narration:feral roar
Rainbow Dash:「And once Pinkie and Rarity were saved , WHOA !」

narration:Me and Fluttershy loop - de - looped around and WHAM ! Got you right in the nick of time . Yes , Rainbow , I was there . And I 'm very grateful , but we gotta-
 gasps
Twilight Sparkle:「A manticore !」
narration:feral roar
Twilight Sparkle:「We got ta get past him !」
narration:manticore snarls
 kick landing
Rarity:「Take that , you ruffian !」
narration:roar
Rarity:「( wailing ) My hair !」
narration:Rarity shrieks
Fluttershy:「Wait ...」
narration:manticore grunts
 manticore snarling
Applejack:「Yee - haw ! Git along , little doggie !」
Fluttershy:「Wait !」
narration:thudding , roar
Applejack:「Whoa ! All yours , partner .」
narration:I 'm on it !
 whoosh
Fluttershy:「Wait !」
narration:manticore snarling
 Rainbow Dash screams
 Rainbow !
 growls
 hooves scrape dirt
 snorts
Fluttershy:「WAAAIT !」
narration:manticore snarls

Fluttershy:「( motherly ) Shh ... it 's okay .」
narration:Oh , you poor , poor little baby . " Little ? " Now , this might hurt for juuust a second ...
 roaring
All:「Fluttershy !」
narration:manticore purring , Fluttershy giggling
Fluttershy:「( baby talk ) Aw , you 're just a widdle old baby kitty , are n't you ?」
narration:Yes you are . Yes you are . How did you know about the thorn ? I did n't . Sometimes we all just need to be shown a little kindness .
Rarity:「( shudders ) My eyes need a rest from all this icky muck .
 Well , I did n't mean that literally ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「That ancient ruin could be right in front of our faces and we would n't even know it !」
Rarity:「I did n't see you there ! My apology .」
narration:ponies talking over each other fearfully
Applejack:「Oh wait , I think I stepped in somethin' .」
narration:Fluttershy screams
 It 's just mud ...
 Applejack yelps
 menacing growls
 all screaming
 Pinkie Pie laughing
All:「Huh ? !」

narration:making goofy noises , laughing
Twilight Sparkle:「Pinkie , what are you doing ? ! Run !」
Pinkie Pie:「Oh girls , do n't you see ?」
narration:singing
 When I was a little filly and the sun was going down
Twilight Sparkle:「Tell me she 's not ...」
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) The darkness and the shadows , they would always make me frown」
Rarity:「She is .」
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) I 'd hide under my pillow from what I thought I 'd saw But Granny Pie said that was n't the way to deal with fears at all」
Rainbow Dash:「Then what is ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) She said , Pinkie , you got ta stand up tall , learn to face your fears You 'll see that they ca n't hurt you , just laugh to make them disappear Ha ... ha ... ha !」
narration:gasp
 all singing and laughing
 So , giggle at the ghostly
 Guffaw at the ghastly Crack up at the creepy
Applejack:「Woohoo ! Whoop it up with the weepy」
narration:Chortle at the kooky Snortle at the spooky

Pinkie Pie:「( singing very rapidly ) And tell that big dumb scary face to take a hike and leave you alone and if he thinks he can scare you he 's got another thing coming and the very idea of such a thing makes you wanna ... HAHAHAHA hehehe ... ( holding note ) Laaaaaaaaugh !」
narration:song ends , all laughing
 all laughing
 brakes squealing , thuds
 How are we gon na cross this ? !
 distant cry
All:「Huh ?」
narration:sobbing , splashing
Sea serpent:「( flamboyant accent ) What a world ! What a WORLD ! ( splash )」
narration:Excuse me , sir . Why are you crying ?
Sea serpent:「( histrionics ) Well , I do n't know . I was just SITTING here , minding my OWN business , when this tacky little cloud of purple smoke just WHISKED past me and tore half of my beloved moustache ... CLEAN OFF ! And now , I 'm just SIMPLY HORRID !」
narration:sobbing theatrically , loud splash
Rainbow Dash:「Oh , gimme a break .」
Applejack:「THAT 'S what all the fuss is about ? !」
Rarity:「Why , of COURSE it is ! ( haughty ) How CAN you be so insensitive ? ! ( sympathetic ) Oh , just look at him . Such lovely luminescent scales .」
Sea serpent:「( sniffs , whines ) I know ...」
Rarity:「And your EXPERTLY coiffed mane .」
Sea serpent:「( pleased ) Oh , I know , I know !」
Rarity:「Your FAAABULOUS manicure .」
Sea serpent:「( gasps , gushing ) It 's so truuuue !」
Rarity:「All RUINED without your beautiful moustache ...」
Sea serpent:「( wailing ) It 's TRUE , I 'm HIDEOUS !」
Rarity:「I simply can not let such a crime against fabulosity go uncorrected .」
narration:chomp
Sea serpent:「( whining ) OW ! What 'd you do that for ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Rarity , what are you- ( slash )」

narration:sea serpent swooning dramatically
Sea serpent:「( delighted ) Oh , hohohohooo !」
narration:preening
 My moustache ! How WONDERFUL !
Rarity:「You look smashing .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh , Rarity ! Your beautiful tail ...」
Rarity:「Oh , ' tis fine , my dear . Short tails are in this season . Besides , it 'll grow back .」
Rainbow Dash:「So would the moustache ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「( gasps ) We can cross now ! Let 's go- ( screams )」
Sea serpent:「( dramatically ) Allow me . There it is ! The ruin that holds the Elements of Harmony !」
Twilight Sparkle:「We made it !」
Applejack:「Twilight ! Wait for us !」
Twilight Sparkle:「We 're almost there- ( yelps ) What 's with you and falling off cliffs today ?」
Pinkie Pie:「( gasps ) Now what ? !」
Rainbow Dash:「Duuuh .」
Pinkie Pie:「Oh yeah !」
Voice:「Rainbow ... Rainbow ...」
Rainbow Dash:「Who 's there ? ! ( indignantly ) I ai n't scared o'you ! Show yourself !」

voice:「We 've been eagerly awaiting the arrival of the best flier in Equestria . Who ?」
Voice:「Why , you , of course . Really ? ! I mean ... Oh yeah , me . Hey , uh , you would n't mind telling the Wonderbolts that , would ya ? 'Cause I 've been trying to get into that group for , like , EVER .
 No , Rainbow Dash . We want you to join US . The Shadowbolts .」
Shadowbolt:「We are the greatest aerial team in the Everfree Forest , and soon we will be the greatest in all Equestria , but first , we need a captain .
 The most magnificent-」
Rainbow Dash:「Yep .」
Shadowbolt:「Swiftest-」
Rainbow Dash:「Yes .」
Shadowbolt:「Bravest flier in all the land .」
Rainbow Dash:「Yes , ( chuckle ) it 's all true .」
Shadowbolt:「We need ... ( whispering ) you .」
Rainbow Dash:「WOOHOO ! Sign me up !
 Just lemme tie this bridge real quick , and then we have a deal .」
Shadowbolt:「NO ! It 's THEM , or US .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Rainbow , what 's taking so long ?Oh no ... RAINBOW !」

narration:fog swooshes in
Twilight Sparkle:「Do n't listen to them- ( drowned out by fog )」
Shadowbolt:「Weeeell ?」
Rainbow Dash:「You ... Thank you . For the offer , I mean . But ... I 'm afraid I have to say no . ( whoosh )」
narration:all cheering
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 See ? I 'd NEVER leave my friends hangin ' .
Applejack:「Whoa . Come on , Twilight . Is n't this what you 've been waitin ' for ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「The Elements of Harmony ! We 've found them !Careful ... Careful ...」
Pinkie Pie:「One , two , three , four ... There 's only five !」
Rainbow Dash:「Where 's the sixth ? The book said , " When the five are present , a spark will cause the sixth Element to be revealed . "」
Applejack:「What in the hay is that s'pposed t 'm ean ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「I 'm not sure , but I have an idea . Stand back . I do n't know what will happen .」
Applejack:「Come on now , y' all . She needs to concentrate .」
narration:wind blowing , Elements scraping ground
 Twilight shrieks

All:「Twilight !」
narration:wind howling
 The Elements !
 all talking over each other worriedly
Applejack:「Twilight ! Where are you ? !」
Rarity:「Look !」
Applejack:「Come on !」
narration:Twilight coughing
 Twilight gasps , Nightmare Moon cackles evilly
 thunder
 Twilight gasps , thunder
 hoof scraping ground
Nightmare Moon:「You 're kidding . You 're kidding , right ?」
narration:hoof scraping ground , horn humming
 poof
 Twilight moans
 Just one spark . Come on , come on ...
 wind howling
 Twilight yelps , thuds
 Elements humming
Nightmare Moon:「No ! NO !」
Twilight Sparkle:「( gasps ) But , where 's the sixth Element ? !」
narration:Nightmare Moon laughs , slams ground
 shards clatter to ground
 You little FOAL , thinking you could defeat ME ? ! Now you will never see your princess or your sun ! The night will last FOREVER !
 cackles
 other ponies talking over each other , echoing
 Twilight gasps , " spark " sound
 You think you can destroy the Elements of Harmony , just like that ? ! Well , you 're wrong , because the spirits of the Elements of Harmony ... are right HERE !

Nightmare Moon:「What ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Applejack , who reassured me when I was in doubt , represents the spirit of ... Honesty .Fluttershy , who tamed the manticore with her compassion , represents the spirit of ... Kindness .Pinkie Pie , who banished fear by giggling in the face of danger , represents the spirit of ... Laughter !Rarity , who calmed a sorrowful serpent with a meaningful gift , represents the spirit of ... Generosity !And Rainbow Dash , who could not abandon her friends for her own heart 's desire , represents the spirit of ... Loyalty !The spirits of these five ponies got us through every challenge you threw at us .」
Nightmare Moon:「You still do n't have the sixth Element ! The spark did n't work ! But it did . A different KIND of spark . I felt it the very moment I realized how happy I was to hear you , to see you , how much I cared about you . The spark ignited inside me when I realized that you all ... are my friends .」
Twilight Sparkle:「You see , Nightmare Moon , when those Elements are ignited by the ... the spark that resides in the heart of us all , it creates the sixth Element . The Element of ... MAGIC !」
narration:hum rising in pitch
 whoosh
Nightmare Moon:「NOOO ! NOOO !」

narration:Twilight 's eyes resonating
Rainbow Dash:「( moans ) My head ...」
Applejack:「Everypony okay ?」
Rarity:「Oh , thank goodness !」
Fluttershy:「Why Rarity , it 's so lovely .」
Rarity:「I know ! I 'll never part with it again !」
Fluttershy:「No , your necklace . It looks just like your Cutie Mark .」
Rarity:「( quizzical " oh 's " ) So does yours !」
narration:Fluttershy gasps
Pinkie Pie:「Look at mine ! Look at mine !」
Rainbow Dash:「Awww YEAH !」
Applejack:「Gee , Twilight ! I thought you were just spoutin ' a lotta hooey , but I reckon we really do represent the elements of friendship .」
Princess Celestia:「Indeed you do .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( gasps ) Princess Celestia !」
Princess Celestia:「Twilight Sparkle , my faithful student . I knew you could do it .」
Twilight Sparkle:「But you told me it was all an old pony tale .」
Celestia:「I told you that you needed to make some friends , nothing more .」

narration:I saw the signs of Nightmare Moon 's return , and I knew it was you who had the magic inside to defeat her , but you could not unleash it until you let true friendship into your heart . Now if only another will , as well . Princess Luna .
 Luna gasps
 It has been a thousand years since I have seen you like this . Time to put our differences behind us . We were meant to rule together , little sister .
All:「Sister ? Will you accept my friendship ?」
Pinkie Pie:「Whoa !」
Luna:「I 'm so sorry ! I missed you so much , big sister !」
Celestia:「I 've missed you too .」
narration:Pinkie Pie blows nose , sobs
 Hey ! You know what this calls for ? ! A PARTY !
Celestia:「Why so glum , my faithful student ? Are you not happy that your quest is complete and you can return to your studies in Canterlot ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「That 's just it . Just when I learned how wonderful it is to have friends , I have to leave them .」

Celestia:「Spike , take a note , please . " I , Princess Celestia , that the unicorn Twilight Sparkle shall take on a new mission for Equestria . She must continue to study the magic of friendship . She must report to me her findings from her new home in Ponyville . "」
narration:ponies cheering
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh , thank you , Princess Celestia ! I 'll study harder than ever before !」

Spike:「No . Nope ... No .」
Applejack:「Thank ya kindly , Twilight , for helpin ' me out .
 I bet Big Macintosh I could get all these Golden Delicious in the barn by lunchtime .」
narration:Spike checking apples
Applejack:「If I win , he 's gon na walk down Stirrup Street in one o'Granny 's girdles !」
narration:chuckles
Twilight Sparkle:「No problem at all , Applejack .」
narration:I 'm glad the goal is lunchtime . All this hard work is making me hungry .
 thunk
Spike:「I know , right ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Puh - lease , Spike . You 've been lounging on my back all morning while WE worked .」
Spike:「Exactly . You two are taking so long , I missed snacktime .」
narration:Twilight 's stomach grumbles noisily
Twilight Sparkle:「( laughs nervously ) I guess we 'd better get some food ...」
Spike:「Nope . Worm . AHA !」
narration:Oh , Spike ! That looks delicious !
 Spike chomps , chews noisily
Twilight Sparkle:「( irritated ) Spike !」

Spike:「( gulps ) What ? ( gags , burps ) It 's a letter from Princess Celestia . ( clears throat ) " Hear ye , hear ye . Her Grand Royal Highness Princess Celestia of Equestria is pleased to announce the Grand Galloping Gala to be held in the magnificent capital of Canterlot , on the st day of ... eh , yadda yadda yadda , cordially extends an invitation to Twilight Sparkle and one guest . "」
Both:「( gasp ) The Grand Galloping Gala ! ( theme song begins ) My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,」
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」
All:「And magic makes it all complete , yeah ( My Little Pony ) Do you know you 're all my very best friends」
Applejack and Twilight:「The Grand Galloping Gala !」
narration:both cheering
 Spike gags , burps

Spike:「Look , two tickets !」
narration:Wow , great ! I 've never been to the Gala . Have you , Spike ? No , and I plan to keep it that way . I do n't want any of that girly , frilly " froo - froo " nonsense . Aw , come on , Spike . A dance would be nice .
Applejack:「Nice ? ! It 's a heap good more than just NICE . I 'd love to go . Land sakes , if I had an apple stand set up , ponies would be chewin ' our tasty vittles ' til the cows came home . Do you have any idea how much business I could drum up for Sweet Apple Acres ? ! and Big Macintosh could replace that saggy old plow , ( poof ) and Granny Smith could replace that saggy old hip ! Wow . I 'd give my left hind leg to go to that Gala .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh . Well , in that case , would you like to-」
narration:Rainbow Dash yelps , thuds
 Are we talking about the Grand Galloping Gala ? ! Rainbow Dash ... you told me you were too busy to help me harvest apples . What were you busy doin' ? Spyin ' ? No , I was busy ... napping . And I just happened to hear that you have an extra ticket ?

Twilight Sparkle:「Yeah , but-」
Rainbow Dash:「YES ! This is SO awesome ! The Wonderbolts perform at the Grand Galloping Gala every year ! I can see it now ... Everyone would be watching the sky ,」
narration:jets streaming past
 their eyes riveted on the Wonderbolts .
 But then in would fly ... RAINBOW DASH !
 audience gasps
Rainbow Dash:「I would draw their attention with my Super Speed Strut ...」
narration:audience cheers
Rainbow Dash:「Then I would mesmerize 'em with my Fantastic Filly Flash ...」
narration:whoosh
 And for my grand finale , The Buccaneer Blaze .
 explosion
 audience cheering
Rainbow Dash:「The ponies would go WILD !」
narration:The Wonderbolts would insist that my signature moves get incorporated into their routine , and then welcome me as their newest member .
 jets streaming across sky
 Do n't you see , Twilight ? This could be my one chance to show 'em my stuff .
Rainbow Dash:「You got ta take ME- ( grunt )」

Applejack:「Hold on just one pony - pickin ' minute here !
 ( spits ) I asked for that ticket first ! So ? That does n't mean you OWN it . Oh yeah ? Well , I challenge you to a hoof - wrasslin ' . Winner gets the ticket .」
narration:both straining
 Girls ! These are MY tickets . I'LL decide who gets it , thank you very much . Whoever has the best reason to go should get the ticket , do n't you think ?
Applejack:「Drummin ' up business for the farm ?」
Rainbow Dash:「A chance to audition for the Wonderbolts ?」
Applejack:「Money to fix Granny 's hip ? !」
Rainbow Dash:「LIVING the DREAM ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh my , those are all pretty good reasons , are n't they ?」
narration:stomach growls noisily
 chuckles nervously
 Listen to that ... I am starving .
 nervously
 I do n't know about you , but I ca n't make decisions on an empty stomach , so I 'll think about it over lunch and get back to you two , okay ?
Both:「( dejectedly ) Okay .」
narration:both straining
Spike:「So , who you gon na give the ticket to , Twilight ?」

narration:I do n't know , Spike , but I REALLY ca n't think straight when I 'm hungry . So where should we eat-
 door slams open
Pinkie Pie:「( shrieks ) BATS ! BATS ON MY FACE ! HELP ! Wait ... these are ... tickets to the GRAND GALLOPING GALA ? ! ( extremely rapid speech ) It 's the most amazing incredible tremendous super - fun wonderful terrifically humongous party in all of Equestria ! I 've always , always , ALWAYS wanted to go ! ( singing ) Oh , the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me Oh , the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me Hip hip , hooray , it 's the best place for me , for Pinkie ( speaking ) With decorations and streamers and fairy lights and pinwheels and pinatas and pincushions . With goodies like sugarcubes and sugarcanes and sundaes and sunbeams and sarsaparilla ! And I get to play my favorite - est of favorite fantabulous games like Pin the Tail on the Pony ! ( singing ) Oh , the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me Oh , the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me 'Cause it 's the most galarific superly - terrific gala ever in the whole galaxy ! WHEE ! ( song ends ) Oh , thank you , Twilight ! It 's the most wonderfulest gift ever !」
narration:Pinkie 's eyes squeak
Twilight Sparkle:「Um , actually ...」

Rarity:「( gasps ) Are these what I think they are ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Uh ...」

Pinkie Pie:「Yes , yes , YES ! Twilight 's taking me to the Grand Galloping Gala in Canterlot ! The Gala ? I design ensembles for the Gala EVERY year , but I 've never had the opportunity to attend . Oh , the SOCIETY , the CULTURE , the GLAMOR , it 's where I truly belong . ( giggles ) It 's where I 'm destined to meet ... ( dreamily ) HIM .
 ( excited ) HIM ! ( quizzically ) Who ? Him ... I would stroll through the Gala , and everyone would wonder , " Who IS that mysterious mare ? " They would never guess that I was just a simple pony from little old Ponyville . Why , I would cause such a sensation that I would be invited for an audience with Princess Celestia HERSELF , and the princess would be so taken with my style and elegance that she would introduce me ... ( squealing ) to HIM , ( dreamily ) her nephew , the most handsome eligible unicorn stallion in Canterlot . Our eyes would meet , our hearts would melt , our courtship would be MAGNIFICENT , he would ask for my hoof in marriage , and of course I would say ... ( shrieking ) YES ! We would have a royal wedding befitting a princess , which is , ( giggles ) of course , what I 'd become upon marrying ( squeals ) HIM , the stallion of my dreams .」
narration:wedding bells ring
 TWILIGHT ! I simply can not believe that you would invite Pinkie Pie so she could ...
 disgusted
 party ,
 high - pitched whining
 and prevent me from meeting my true love ! How could you ? ! HMPH !
Spike:「Hey !」
narration:Fluttershy gasps
 Angel , these are perfect .
Twilight Sparkle:「Uh , listen guys , I have n't decided who to give the extra ticket to .」

Rarity and Pinkie Pie:「You have n't ? !」
Fluttershy:「( meekly ) Um , excuse me , Twilight , I would just like to ask , um , if it would be all right , if you have n't given it to someone else ... ( incredulous ) YOU ? ! YOU want to go to the Gala ? Oh , no . ( Angel thumps feet ) I , I mean , yes . Or , actually , kinda . You see , it 's not so much the Grand Galloping Gala as it is the wondrous private gated garden surrounding the dance . The flowers are said to be the most beautiful and fragrant in all of Equestria . For the night of the gala , and that night alone , would they all be in bloom ... And that 's just the flora ! Do n't get me started on the fauna ! There 's loons , and toucans , and bitterns , oh my ! Hummingbirds that can really hum , and buzzards that can really buzz , and blue jays , and red jays , and green jays , pink jays and pink flamingos .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Gee , Fluttershy , it sounds ... beautiful ?」
Rainbow Dash:「WAIT JUST A MINUTE !」

Twilight Sparkle:「Rainbow Dash , were you following me ? ( flustered ) No . I mean , yes . I mean , maybe . Look , it does n't matter . I could n't risk a goody - four - shoes like you giving that ticket away to just anybody .」
Applejack:「Wait just another minute ! Applejack , were you following me too ? No , I was following THIS one [ Rainbow Dash ] to make sure she did n't try any funny business . ( grumbling ) Still tryin ' to take my ticket . YOUR ticket ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「But Twilight 's taking me !」
narration:ponies arguing over each other
Twilight Sparkle:「QUIEEEEEEEEEEET !」
Pinkie Pie:「And then I said , " Oatmeal ? ! Are you crazy ? ! " ... ( sheepishly ) Oh .」
narration:Girls , there 's no use in arguing .
Rarity:「( pleading ) But Twilight-」
Twilight Sparkle:「( shushes ) This is my decision , and I 'm gon na make it on my own , and I 'm gon na make it on my own , and I certainly ca n't think straight with all this noise , ( stomach grumbles ) not to mention hunger .」

narration:Now go on ! Shoo !
 ponies grumble
 And do n't worry ! I 'll figure this out !
 crestfallen , to self
 Somehow .
Twilight Sparkle:「Ah , Spike , what am I gon na do ? All five of my best friends have really good reasons to go to the Gala . Applejack , or Rainbow Dash ? Pinkie Pie , or Fluttershy , Rarity ... Oh , who should go with me ?」
narration:stomach grumbles
Waiter:「Have you made your decision ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「I ca n't decide !」

narration:Twilight , he just wants to take your order . ... Oh . I would love a daffodil and daisy sandwich . Do you have any rubies ? ... No ? Okay . I 'll have the hay fries . Extra - crispy . What do you think , Spike ? I think we have to try another restaurant . I mean , I like grass just fine , but would it hurt anybody to offer some gemstones ? I MEAN about the Gala and the ticket and who I should take . Oh .
 annoyed
 You 're still on THAT ? Spike , LISTEN ! HOW do I choose ? And when I DO choose , would the other four be mad at me ? I mean , I could give up my ticket and give away two , but that would still leave three disappointed ponies !
Twilight Sparkle:「What if I-」
Waiter:「Ah , your food .」
narration:Oh , thank you . This looks so good . I 'm sure everything will be much clearer once I eat .
 stampede rumble
Waiter:「Erm , madame ? Are you going to eat your food in ze rain ?」
narration:It 's not raining ...
 thunderclap , rainfall
 What 's going on ?

Rainbow Dash:「Hi there best friend forever I 've ever ever had ! Enjoying the sunny weather ? ( accusatory ) Rainbow Dash , what are you doing ? ( innocently ) What do you mean ? I just saw the smartest , most generous pony about to get rained on , so I thought I 'd kick a hole in the clouds to keep her dry so she could dine in peace , that 's all .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Rainbow , you 're not trying to get extra consideration for the EXTRA ticket by doing me extra special favors , ARE you ? Me ? No no no , of COURSE not ! ( sarcastic ) Uh - huh . Seriously . I 'd do it for anypony .」
narration:ponies dashing about
 gulps
 Heheh ... eh ... Rainbow , I am NOT comfortable accepting unwanted favors .
Twilight Sparkle:「So I 'd appreciate it if you 'd close up that raincloud right now . Ugh . FINE . That 's better .」
narration:rainfall , Twilight grumbles
 Spike snickers
Rarity:「Twilight ! ( matter - of - factly ) It 's raining .」
narration:sarcastic
 No ! Really ?
Rarity:「Come with me before you catch a cold !」
narration:Twilight shakes off water

Twilight Sparkle:「( giggles nervously ) Oops ... sorry ...」
narration:saccharine
 Oh no ! It 's QUITE all right ! After all , we ARE the BEST of friends ! ... are we not ? And you KNOW what the best of friends do !
Twilight Sparkle:「Uh ...」
Rarity:「( singsong ) MAKEOVER !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Rarity ! Ow , this really is n't fixing it ... I mean , thank you , but ( straining to breathe ) it 's ... too ... tight ...」
Rarity:「There . Oh , you 're simply DARLING . Uh ... yeah ! It is kinda pretty , is n't it ?」
narration:Spike gagging
Rarity:「And YOU !」
narration:Oh Spike , I have a dandy little outfit for the dashing gent .
Spike:「Daah ! Ow , hey , wow , watch it ! WHOA !」
narration:Spike shudders
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh , Spike .」
Rarity:「Now you just need a hat . Ugh ! I told you , I do n't want any part of this girly Gala junk ! See you back at the library .
 ( laughing nervously ) Oh , who needs HIM anyway ?」

narration:mirror dragging on ground
 This is all about YOU , and how FABULOUS you 'll look at the Grand Galloping Gala !
 Wait . " The Grand- "
Rarity:「( gasps dramatically ) And oh , my goodness ! What a coincidence ! I happen to have an ensemble of my own that matches yours to a tee ! We would be the belles of the ball , you and I. Everyone would be CLAMORING for our attention . All eyes would be on us , and then everyone would finally know , the most beautiful , most talented , most sophisticated pony in all of Equestria is RARITY THE UNICORN ! Ah ... ( nervous tittering ) And Twilight Sparkle , of course ... ( nervous giggle ) I see what 's going on . You 're just buttering me up so I give you the extra ticket . Well , it 's not gon na work . You 're going to have to wait for my decision like everyone else . Now , if you 'll excuse me , I 've been trying all day just to get some lunch !」
Applejack:「Did somepony say lunch ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「You 've GOT to be kidding me !」

Applejack:「I got apple pie , apple fritters , apple tarts , apple dumplin 's , apple crisps , apple crumbles aaaand ... Apple Brown Betty . Uh , the dessert , not my aunt . Whaddya say there , best friend ?」
narration:Twilight 's stomach grumbles loudly
 [SCENE_BREAK]
Applejack:「Is that a yes ?」
narration:No . No ! I do n't know who I 'm giving the ticket to , and all these favors are n't making it any easier to decide . In fact , I 'm less sure now than I was this morning !
 Twilight screams
 So , that 's a maybe ?
Twilight Sparkle:「( groans ) I never thought being showered with favors would be so aggravating ...」

narration:Fluttershy humming My Little Pony theme
 Twilight gasps
 Fluttershy ! Not you too ! Oh ! Well , hello , Twilight . I hope you do n't mind . We 're all doing a little spring cleaning for you .
 dryly
 It 's summer . O - oh , well , better late than never , right ? It was Angel 's idea .
 salad tongs tapping bowl
 You 're not doing this for the ticket , are you ? Oh , no ! I 'm doing this because you 're my very best friend . Right , Angel ? Oh . Yes , we are just doing this for the ticket .
 stomach grumbles
 No , no , NO ! Well , this is all very nice of you and Angel , but I 'm not accepting any extra favors until I 've made my final decision , so I 'm going to have to ask you to leave .
Ponies ( outside ):「SURPRISE !」
narration:horns blow , song starts
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) Twilight is my bestest friend ! Whoopee , whoopee !」
Twilight Sparkle:「( unamused ) Pinkie ...」
Pinkie:「( singing ) She 's the cutest , smartest , all - around best po - nyyy , po - nyyy !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Pinkie .」

Pinkie:「( singing ) I bet if I throw a super - duper fun par - tyyy , par - tyyy」
Twilight Sparkle:「( annoyed ) Pinkie !」
Pinkie:「( singing ) She 'll give her extra ticket to the Gala to me ! ( song ends )」
Twilight Sparkle:「( screaming ) PINKIIIIIIIE !」
narration:crash
 sweetly
 Yes , Twilight ?
 eyes flutter
 At least the other ponies TRIED to be subtle about the ticket !
Purple pony:「Wait , what ticket ? What gala ?」
Pinkie Pie:「Oh , you did n't know ? ! Twilight has an extra ticket to the Grand Galloping Gala !」
All:「THE GRAND GALLOPING GALA ? !」
narration:commotion
Pony:「Have I ever told you how much I love your mane ?
 I 'll wash your dishes .」
Pink pony:「Would you like any help with your gardening ?」
Teal pony:「I have a cartload of extra carrots .」
narration:ponies talking over each other
Spike:「What 're we gon na do ?」

narration:We 're ... gonna ... RUUUUUN !
 light remix of Benny Hill 's Yakety Sax plays
 ponies offering favors
 poof , ponies gasp
 ponies talk over each other in confusion
 rising pitch hum , poof
Spike:「( dazed ) Warn me next time you 're gon na do that !」
narration:I did n't even know it was gon na happen ! Now quick , lock the doors !
 doors and windows slamming shut
 sigh of relief
 frustrated scream
 harried
 I ca n't decide ! I just ca n't decide ! It 's important to all of you and I just ca n't stand to disappoint any of you , and giving me gifts and doing me favors wo n't make any difference because you 're all my friends and I wanna make you all happy and I ca n't , I just CAN'T !
Applejack:「Twilight , sugar , I - I did n't mean to put so much pressure on you . And if it helps , I do n't want the ticket anymore . You can give it to somepony else . I wo n't feel bad , I promise .」
Fluttershy:「Me too . I feel just awful that I made you feel so awful ...」
Pinkie Pie:「And me too . It 's no fun upsetting your friends .」
Rarity:「Twilight , it was unfair of me to try to force you as I did .」
Rainbow Dash:「YES ! That means the ticket is MINE ! ( giggles , gloats ) I got the ticket , I got the ticket ... You know , I have n't perfected my signature moves for the Wonderbolts , anyway . I do n't need that ticket either .」
Applejack:「We all got so gung - ho about goin' to the Gala that we could n't see how un - gung - ho we were makin ' you .」
All:「We 're sorry , Twilight . Spike , take down a note . " Dear Princess Celestia , I 've learned that one of the joys of friendship is sharing your blessings , but when there 's not enough blessings to go around , having more than your friends can make you feel pretty awful . So , though I appreciate the invitation , I will be returning both tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala . "
 WHAT ? ! If my friends ca n't all go , I do n't wanna go either .」
Applejack:「Twilight ... You do n't have t'do that . Nope , I 've made up my mind . Spike , you can send the letter now .」
narration:inhales , breathes fire
Fluttershy:「Now you wo n't get to go to the Gala either .」
narration:It 's okay , girls . I could n't possibly enjoy myself without my best friends there with me ,
 ponies doting
 so I 'd rather not go at all .
 Spike gags heavily
Applejack:「Well , wallop my withers , Spike .」
narration:Spike gagging
 Is n't that just like a boy ? Ca n't handle the least bit of sentiment .
 Spike burps

Applejack:「Whoa , Nelly !」
Twilight Sparkle:「A letter from the princess ? That was fast . " My faithful student Twilight , Why did n't you say so in the first place ? Six tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala ! "」
narration:ponies gasp
Twilight Sparkle:「Now we can all go !」

Applejack:「Boy , howdy . I got my work cut out for me . That there 's the biggest bumper crop o'apples I ever laid eyes on .」
Big Macintosh:「Ee - yup . Too big for you t'handle on yer own .」
Applejack:「Come on , big brother ! You need to rest up and get yourself better .」
narration:I have n't met an apple orchard yet that I ca n't handle .
 jabs Big Mac
 Oops ! Sorry ... I 'll take a bite outta this job by day 's end .
Big Mac:「Biting off more than you can chew is just what I 'm afraid of . Are you sayin ' my mouth is makin ' promises my legs ca n't keep ? Yup . Why , of all the- This is your sister Applejack , remember ? ! ( raising voice ) The loyalest of friends and the most dependable of ponies ? But still only ONE pony . And ONE pony plus HUNDREDS o'apple trees just does n't add up . Do n't you use yer fancy " mathematics " to muddy the issue ! I said I can handle this harvest and I 'm gon na prove it to you . I 'm gon na get every last apple out of those trees this applebuck season all by myself .」
narration:gulps
 theme song begins
 My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」

All:「And magic makes it all complete , yeah ( My Little Pony ) Do you know you 're all my very best friends Well , I better get kickin ' . These apples are n't gon na shake themselves outta the trees .」
narration:low rumbling , apple thuds
 Hey !
 ground rumbling
 Oh no !
 STAMPEEEEEEDE !
 cows mooing , ground being trampled
 ponies panicking , doors slamming shut
Pinkie Pie:「( laughing , voice trembling with ground ) He - e - ey ! Thi - i - is ma - a - akes my - y - y - y voi - i - ice so - o - ound silly - y - y !」
narration:Pinkie Pie ! Are you crazy ? ! Run ! Everypony calm down . There is no reason to panic !
Rarity:「But mayor ! Whatever shall we do ? !」
Rainbow Dash:「Look there !」
narration:ground shaking underfoot
Applejack:「YEE - HAW !」
narration:cheering
 Winona barking
 Rarity moans
Pinkie Pie:「This is the best rodeo show I 've ever seen !」
narration:Come on , little doggie ! Herd !
Applejack:「( whistles ) Winona , put'em up .」
narration:Winona barks
Applejack:「Ha HA ! That 's it !」
narration:rope twirling , Applejack grunting
 Winona barks
Applejack:「( grunts ) Attagirl . Yeehaw !」
narration:cheering
Applejack:「Whoooooa !」
narration:Hoo - wee ! Now , what was THAT all about ?
 moos , clears throat
 Oh , my ! Begging your pardon , Applejack , but Mooriella here saw one of those nasty snakes .
 cows gasp
 And it just gave us ALL the willies , don'tcha know ! I completely understand . Just next time , try and steer clear o'Ponyville . We certainly will , Applejack . So long , Winona !
 Winona barks
 ponies cheer , Winona barks
Applejack:「Yee - haw !」
Pinkie Pie:「Yee - haw ! Ride'em , cowpony !」
Mayor:「Applejack was just ... just ...」
Pinkie Pie:「Apple - TASTIC ! Exactly ! We must do something to thank Applejack for single - hoofedly saving the town .
 I know ! A PARTY !」
Twilight Sparkle:「We all ready ? Just one last thing .」

Rarity:「NOW we 're ready . Is Applejack all set ?」
Rainbow Dash:「Actually , I have n't seen her all week .」
Pinkie Pie:「Not since the stampede .」
Rainbow Dash:「But she 'll be here for sure . Applejack is NEVER late !」
narration:ponies chattering
 notecards slapping desk
Twilight Sparkle:「Welcome , everypony !」
narration:Today we are here to honor a pony we can always count on to help in matters great and small . A pony whose contributions to-
 crash
Rainbow Dash:「Did you see Applejack 's swift moves out there ? ! What an ATHLETE ! This week , she 's gon na help me with my new flying trick , and I know it 's gon na be ( squealing ) so awesome !」
Twilight Sparkle:「EXACTLY . And-」
Pinkie Pie:「This week , I get to run Sugar Cube Corner for the first time !」
Twilight Sparkle:「What does that have to do with Applejack ?」
narration:OH !
 Applejack , one of the best bakers EVER , is gon na help me ! Applejack makes everything great , so FREE SAMPLES FOR EVERYPONY !
 ponies cheer

Twilight Sparkle:「Hokay , that 's great .Now , if I could just make a point without being inter-」
Fluttershy:「Twilight ? Twilight
 Twilight , I 'm so sorry , but I just wanted to mention that Applejack is also helping me this week with the official bunny census , where we count up all the new baby bunnies that were born this season .」
narration:She 's gon na help gather them using her wonderful herding skills .
Twilight Sparkle:「( dryly ) Anyone else ? Anyone ?No ? Well , then . As I was trying to say- ( frustrated grunt ) Never mind . ( clears throat ) And so , with no further ado , it is my privilege to give the prized Pony of Ponyville Award to our beloved guest of honor , a pony of the utmost trustworthiness , reliability , and integrity , Ponyville 's most capable and dependable friend , Applejack !」
narration:ponies cheering , stop
Spike:「Cool , way to go , Applejack ! That was awesome ! I mean- heh ...」
narration:clears throat nervously
Spike:「( singsong ) Awkward .」
Applejack:「( groggily ) I 'm here ! I 'm here ...」

narration:yawns deeply
 Sorry I 'm late - whoa !
 trips , thuds
 Was I just- Did I get your tail ? Miss Mayor , thank you kindly for this here ... award ... thingy ...
 yawns
 It 's so bright and shiny and ... heh ... heheh ... I sure do look funny , heh ...
Applejack and Pinkie Pie:「Woooowooooowoooo !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oookay . Well , thank you , Applejack , for saving us from that scary stampede , and always being there for everypony . ( yawns ) Yeah ... I like helpin ' the ponyfolk and ...」
narration:yawns
 and stuff ...
 snores
 Oh ! Uh ... yeah , thanks !
 trophy drags on ground loudly
Twilight Sparkle:「Was it just me , or did Applejack seem a little-」
Rainbow Dash:「Tired ?」
Fluttershy:「Dizzy ?」
Rarity:「Messy ?」
narration:haughty
 Well , did you SEE her mane ? !
Pinkie Pie:「She seemed fine to me . WOO ! WOO !」

narration:Twilight " hmm 's "
 Applejack grunts , kicks tree , apples thud into baskets
 Applejack grunts and kicks tree then sighs
 sighs sleepily , shakes self awake
 Applejack kicks , yelps
 Applejack kicks basket , apples roll out
Twilight Sparkle:「What on earth is that pony doing ? !」
Applejack:「Whoops ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「Hey , Applejack !」
narration:Applejack snores
Twilight Sparkle:「Applejack !」
narration:Applejack snores
Twilight Sparkle:「Applejack !」
narration:Applejack snores
 Applejack snores
Twilight Sparkle:「APPLEJACK !」
Applejack:「Oh ! ( shakes self awake )
 H - howdy , Twilight !」
Twilight Sparkle:「What IS all this ? !」
Applejack:「I - it 's applebuck season !
 ( kicks tree , apples thud into baskets ) Wh - whoa !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Applewhat season ?」
Applejack:「( frustrated grunt ) It 's what the Apple Family calls harvesting time . We gather all the apples from the trees so we can sell 'em .」
Twilight Sparkle:「But ... why are you doing it all alone ?」

Applejack:「'Cause Big Macintosh hurt himself .」
Twilight Sparkle:「What about all those relatives I met when I first came to Ponyville ? Ca n't they help ?」
Applejack:「( sighs ) They were just here for the Apple Family Reunion . They actually live all over Equestria and are busy harvestin ' their own orchards . So , uh , I 'm on my own .」
narration:poof
 Which means I should really get back to work .
Applejack:「( clears throat ostentatiously ) Hint - hint ?
 Get back to work ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Fine .」
Applejack:「( woozy ) Uh , could you step aside , Twilight ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「I just did ... ( echoing ) Applejack , you do n't look so good ...」
Applejack:「( shakes self awake ) Do n't any a'you three worry none , I 'm just fine and dandy .
 ( kicks tree ) Wh - whoa ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「Do you ... want some help ?」
Applejack:「Help ? ! No way , no how .」
Twilight Sparkle:「But there 's no way you can do it all on your own !」
Applejack:「Is that a CHALLENGE ?」

Twilight Sparkle:「Um ... no ?」
Applejack:「Well , I 'm gon na PROVE t'you that I can do it ! Now , if you 'll EX - KYUUSE me , I 've got apples t'buck .」
narration:Rainbow Dash tapping hoof on fencepost
Rainbow Dash:「THERE you are !」
Applejack:「( yawns ) I 'm a - mite sorry , Rainbow ...」
narration:I was busy applebuckin ' and I guess I- I closed my eyes for a second , and when I woke up , I was late . Now , what 's this new trick a'yours ?
Rainbow Dash:「See this contraption ?」
Applejack:「Uh , yeah ...」
Rainbow Dash:「Well , I 'm gon na stand on one end ,
 Well , I 'm gon na stand on one end , then you 're gon na jump down from that platform , launching me into the air faster than I can take off on my own . Once I 'm in the air , I 'm gon na do some AMAZING flips and spins that are sure to impress the Wonderbolts . Is n't that a mite dangerous ? Heh , not for a pony who can fly . Well , all righty , then !」
narration:wind whistling

Applejack:「( woozy ) Oh my ...」
narration:Ready ? ! One ... two ...
 THREE !
 Applejack slams into ground , grunts
 Uh , maybe I was n't clear . You 're supposed to land ON the other end .
Applejack:「( face pops off ground , dazed ) Got it ...」
narration:thud , grunt , thud , grunt , thud , grunt
Rainbow Dash:「Applejack , what the hay is goin' on ? !」
narration:I mean , I THOUGHT I was working with Ponyville 's best athlete !
 shakes self awake , talking loudly
 You ARE ! I 'm okay ... Really ... I - I have an idea . Watch this .
 groans , launcher creaks
 Ta - da .
Applejack:「Oh ... maybe not ... Okay , one more try . I 'm sure to get it this time .」
narration:thud , Rainbow Dash grunts
 groans
Applejack:「Heh heh ... he - here I go !」
Rainbow Dash:「WAIT ! ( into distance ) APPLEJAAaaaaack ...」
Applejack:「( shouting ) You 're welcome !」
narration:approaching jet , Rainbow Dash screaming , crash
 Can I help you ? I think somepony else needs your help ...
Twilight Sparkle:「( flatly ) Applejack ?」

Rainbow Dash:「Yep .」
Applejack:「( thunk ) OW !」
narration:tuning fork wobbling
Twilight Sparkle:「Applejack , can we talk ?」
narration:bubbles popping
Twilight Sparkle:「( echoing ) Applejack , can we talk ?」
Applejack:「CAN BEES SQUAWK ? ! I - I DON'T THINK SO ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「No . Can we talk ?」

narration:TWENTY STALKS ? ! BEAN OR CELERY ?
 louder
 No ! I need to talk to you !
 YOU NEED TO WALK TO THE ZOO ? ! WELL , WHO 'S STOPPIN ' YOU ?
 louder
 I NEED to TALK to you !
 OH ! WELL , WHY DIDN'T YOU SAY SO ? ! WHATCHA WANNA TALK ABOUT ?
 loudly
 Rainbow Dash dropped in to see me today !
 THAT 'S QUITE NEIGHBORLY OF HER .
 shouting
 YES , EXCEPT THAT SHE CRASHED ONTO MY BALCONY AFTER YOU LAUNCHED HER INTO THE AIR .
 normal volume
 Oh , yeah ... I was n't feelin ' quite myself this mornin ' ... Because you 're working too hard , and you need HELP ! What ? Kelp ? ! I do n't need kelp . I do n't even like seaweed !
 shouting
 HELP ! YOU NEED HELP ! Nothin' doin' , Twilight . I 'm gon na prove t'you ... t'everypony ... that I can do this ON MY OWN .
 thwap , Applejack yelps
 Ugh ... now if you 'll EXCUSE me , I 've got ta go help Pinkie Pie ...
 sighs
Mrs. Cake:「Now , Pinkie Pie , are you SURE you 're up to baking the muffins and running the store this afternoon ?」
narration:Yessirree bob , Mrs. Cake ! Plus , I have Ponyville 's prized pony to help me out .
 Why , she 's the best baker EVER ! Right , Applejack ?
 Applejack shakes self awake
 Pinkie 's words echo incoherently
 shakes self awake
Mr. Cake:「No ? You 're not the best baker ever ?」
narration:What ? ! Oh no ! I mean , do n't you fret . I can bake anything from fritters to pies in the blink of an eye .
Mrs. Cake:「Ohoho ! Well , all right ! Well , see you later , girls !」
narration:shakes self awake
Pinkie Pie:「Stop with the shakin ' , it 's time to get bakin ' !」
narration:All righty ! I 'll get the sugar and the eggs . Can you get me some chocolate chips ? E - eh , uh ... wh - what was that ?
 slowed down , distorted
 Chocolate chips ! " Chips" ... got it . Tater chips ... All salty'n'dry ... okie - dokie .
Applejack:「( empties chips into bowl ) What next ? ( slowed down , distorted ) Baking soda ! " Soda " ... Perfect ! That 'll get the tater chips nice'n'wet .
 ( pours soda , shouts ) NOW WHAT ?」
Pinkie Pie:「( normally ) A cup of flour . A cup of sour ? ! Well , lemons are sure sour .」
Applejack:「One cup o 's our comin ' up . Anything else , Pinkie ?」
Pinkie Pie:「One last thing . Wheat germ . ( grimaces ) Wheat worms ? ! Oh ! That must be fancy talk for earthworms !
 Now THAT 'S gon na be DELICIOUS !」

Applejack:「If you say so ...」
Pinkie Pie:「FREE MUFFIN SAMPLE SPECTACULAR !」
narration:ponies talk over each other
 Yeah ! Muffin spectacles ! Get 'm while they 're hot !
Twilight Sparkle:「We came as soon as we heard !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 sickly moans
Nurse:「Oh , thank you , Twilight . We need all the help we can get !」
narration:Oh no ! What happened ? !
Nurse:「It was a mishap with some of the baked goods .」
Pinkie Pie:「( weakly ) No ... not baked goods . Baked BADS ... ( gurgles ) Applejack .」
Spike:「( chewing noisily ) Mm ! Want one ?」
Applejack:「( kicks tree , snores , apple thuds ) Wha ? ! Huh ? !」
narration:cart rolling , Applejack yawning
 Applejack moans with exhaustion , apples roll out
 Applejack snoring loudly
Twilight Sparkle:「Applejack , we need to talk .」

narration:Whoa ? ! Huh ? ! Oh , it 's you , Twilight ...
 yawning
 I know what you 're gon na say , but the answer is still no . Not to upset your applecart , but you need help !
Applejack:「( sarcastic ) Hardy - har . ( strains ) No , I do n't .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Here . Let me help .」
Applejack:「Help ? ! Nooo thanks . ( straining ) A little more ... ( cart creaking ) Little ... ( straining , cart creaking , crash ) ... There ... ( panting ) I 'll prove that THIS apple can handle THESE apples ! ( kicking tree repeatedly ) Come on ... apples ... fall off !」
Twilight Sparkle:「AJ ? I think you 're beating a dead ... tree . I - I knew that ...Actually , Applejack , I had something else to talk to you about . I just came back from Ponyville Urgent Care , and-」
Applejack:「Y'know , I 'm a LITTLE busy to get lectured right now , Twilight ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「But if you 'd just let me help-」
Applejack:「UGH ! No ... no ... NO ! How many times do I got ta say it ? ! I do n't need NO help from NOpony !」

Twilight Sparkle:「Uuugh . That pony is stubborn as a mule .」
narration:mule neighs
Twilight Sparkle:「No offense .」
Mule:「None taken .」
Fluttershy:「Oh , Applejack . Thank you so much for offering your herding skills for the annual rabbit round - up .」
Applejack:「( annoyed ) Ugh . Why are we doin' this ? Well , lots of new baby bunnies have been born , so it 's my job to get a count of all the new families .
 ( impatiently ) Fine . Can we just get on with it ? ! Certainly . But remember , these are bunnies we 're dealing with , not cows . They 're a timid bunch and need to be treated gently . I do NOT need any direction on corralin ' critters !」
narration:Right , WInona ? !
 Winona barks
Fluttershy:「Okay , little bunnies . ( gently ) I need you to all gather here in the middle .」
Applejack:「( intimidating ) That 's right ! Let 's go , bunnies ! In the center ! Hop to it ! ... Swell . Just swell . Put 'em up , Winona !」
narration:Winona barking

Fluttershy:「Applejack ! Winona ! Stop ! You 're scaring them !」
Applejack:「We know what we 're doin' !」
narration:Git along , little bunnies !
 Winona barks
 Winona growls
Fluttershy:「Oh no ...」
narration:bunnies scream
 ground rumbling
 STAMPEEEEEDE !
 ponies panic , doors slam shut
 rumble grows more intense
 faints
 Twilight humming tunelessly
 gasps
 The horror , THE HORROR ! It was AWFUL ! A DISASTER ! A horrible , horrible DISASTER !
Twilight Sparkle:「I do n't get it . Our gardens ! Destroyed ! Every last flower , devoured ! By ... by ... ( shrieks ) THEM !」
Fluttershy:「( frantic ) Oh ... oh my ! Please stop , little bunnies . Nono ! Please ! Let 's go home ! ( panting ) Oh my goodness ... All right . Enough is enough .」
Applejack:「( wearily ) Must ... keep ... buckin ' ... ( kicking tree repeatedly ) Just ... a few ... more ... must ... finish ... harvestin ' ...」

Twilight Sparkle:「All right , Applejack . Your applebucking has n't just caused YOU problems , it 's over - propelled a pegasus , practically poisoned plenty of ponies , and terrorized bushels of brand new bouncing baby bunnies . I do n't care WHAT you say , YOU . NEED . HELP .」
Applejack:「( grunts , kicks tree , apples land in baskets ) Heh ! No I do n't ! Look ! I did it ! I harvested the entire Sweet Apple Acres without yer help . ( chuckles ) How'dya like THEM apples ? !」
Big Mac:「Um ... How do YOU like THEM apples ?」
Applejack:「( trembling ) A - a - apples ... ( incoherent rambling , faints )」
Twilight Sparkle:「( faint ) Applejack ? ( normal ) Applejack !」
Applejack:「Huh ... ? Oh good . You 're okay . Now Applejack , I completely respect the Apple family ways . You 're always there to help anypony in need , so maybe you can put a little of your stubborn pride aside and allow your friends to help you ? ( resigned ) Okay , Twilight . I am not taking " no " for an answer- ( doubletakes ) What ? ! Yes , Twilight . ( pleading ) Yes , please ... I could really use your help ...」

narration:Twilight giggles , sighs with relief
Twilight Sparkle:「( voice - over ) " Dear Princess Celestia , My friend Applejack is the best friend a pony could ever have , and she 's always there to help anypony .」

narration:branch rips
 branch reattaches
Rarity:「Hmm ...」
narration:Hah !
 poof
 Perfect .
 branch rips , crashes to ground
Applejack:「( spits ) Just take the broken limbs down , Rarity .」
narration:Don'tcha'll care 'bout nothin' more than prettifyin ' ?
Rarity:「( defensive ) SOMEpony has to ! You were making an absolute MESS of the town square , Applejack .」
Applejack:「Yeah , well , the storm 's gon na make an even bigger mess if we do n't prune all these loose branches so they do n't tumble down on anypony .」
Rarity:「I simply CANNOT imagine why the pegasus ponies would schedule a dreadful downpour this evening and ruin what could 've been a glorious sunny day .」
Applejack:「( sighs ) Think more practical - like , will ya ?
 ( kicking tree ) They accidentally skipped a scheduled sprinkle last week , so we need a doozy of a downpour to make up for it , is all .」
Rarity:「( whining ) Oh no ! My wonderfully styled mane shall be ruined !」
Applejack:「Ya shoulda hurried up and finished the job , already .」
Rarity:「( yelping frantically ) It 's coming down too fast ! ( yelping ) Help me !」
Applejack:「Uh ... there . Hunker down to your heart 's content whilst I finish this .」
Rarity:「( panting ) Oh , no , no , no !」
Applejack:「What now ?」
Rarity:「I prefer not to get my hooves muddy .」
Applejack:「( scoffs ) There is just no pleasin ' ya , is there ? ! Everything 's got ta be just so .」
Rarity:「And how does muddying my hooves serve ANY useful purpose ?」
Applejack:「Y'all would n't know useful if it came up and bit'cha .」
Rarity:「( laughs condescendingly ) That does n't even make any sense .」
Applejack:「Does so .」
Rarity:「Does not .」
Applejack:「Does so .」
Rarity:「Does not .」
Applejack:「Does so .」
Rarity:「Does not .」
Applejack:「Does so INFINITY . Hah .」
Rarity:「Does not infinity plus one . Hah . What say we go our separate ways before one of us says something she will regret ?」
Applejack:「I reckon Y'ALL are gon na say something YOU'LL regret first .」
Rarity:「On the contrary . I believe it shall most certainly be you who says something you will regret first .」
narration:loud peal of thunder
Rarity:「( trembling ) Per - perhaps we should stick together for now and find some shelter .」
narration:wind whistling
Applejack:「( uneasy ) Uh - huh , perhaps we should . Sounds fair .」

narration:theme song begins
 My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」
All:「And magic makes it all complete yeah ( My Little Pony ) Do you know you 're all my very best friends」
narration:distant thunder
Applejack:「Nice and dry under here ... sorta .」
Rarity:「Oh ! Unacceptable .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( distant shouting ) Applejack ! Rarity !( slightly louder ) Applejack ! Rarity !」
Applejack and Rarity:「Twilight ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Come inside , girls ! Quick !」
Applejack:「Whoa , Nelly . Is inside a tree really the best place to be during a lightning storm ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「It is if you have a magical lightning rod protecting your home like I do .」
narration:Come on in !

Rarity:「Hah ! ( graciously ) We are most grateful for your invitation .」
Applejack:「Thank ya kindly for your hospitality .」
Rarity:「( patronizing ) Uh , DO be a polite houseguest and wash up , please . Wo n't you ?」
narration:Applejack grumbles
Applejack:「( under breath ) If I got ta stand one more second with that fussbudget Rarity today , I ca n't be held responsible for what I 'm gon na do .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Some storm , huh ?」
narration:The pegasus ponies sure have outdone themselves this time . I hope you and Applejack do n't have any trouble getting home .
Rarity:「( shifty ) It may indeed be a problem ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「Well , you 're welcome to stay if need be . Spike is away in Canterlot on royal business . I 'm home all alone tonight . ( gasps ) You and Applejack should TOTALLY sleep over !」
narration:clapping hooves
 We 'll have a slumber party !
 I 've always wanted one of those !

Rarity:「( blink blink , stalling ) Oh ! Uh , goodness . Uh , I do believe I have another engagement scheduled for this evening that COMPLETELY slipped my mind until just now . ( nervous laugh ) Ah , silly me . I could n't POSSIBLY stay here all night ... ( under breath ) with Applejack .
 ( reading ) " Slumber」
Twilight Sparkle:「( gushing ) My OWN personal copy ! It 's a fantastic reference guide . You should see the Table of Contents ! I 've been waiting for a chance to use it . And TODAY 'S the day ! This is gon na be SO GREAT !」
Rarity:「Yes ... great ... ( nervous laughter )」
narration:water spraying , Applejack grumbling
Applejack:「( gasps ) What in tarnation ? !」
narration:Rarity slaps mud on Twilight 's face
 Now , wait just a gol - darn minute . Ya make me wash the mud off my hooves , but it 's okay for y' all to have mud all over your faces ? !
Rarity:「Silly ! This is called a mud MASK . It 's to refresh and rejuvenate your complexion .」

Twilight Sparkle:「( squealing in delight ) We 're giving each other MAKEOVERS ! ( high - pitched laughter ) We have to do it . It says so in the book .」
Applejack:「( reading ) " Slumber」
narration:loud peal of thunder , Applejack yelps
 ... Ooor , maybe I 'll stay here for a spell .
Twilight Sparkle:「( clapping hooves ) Hooray , slumber party !」
narration:mud slaps face
 squish squish
 Applejack grunts
 Applejack gags
 cucumbers slap onto eyes
 What in the world is this for ? !
Rarity:「( exasperated sigh ) To reduce the puffiness around one 's eyes , of course .」
Applejack:「Puffiness - shmuffiness ! ( licks off , chomps loudly , swallows ) That 's good eatin ' !」
narration:Applejack chewing loudly
Twilight Sparkle:「Teehee ! Is n't this exciting ? ! We 'll do everything by the book ,」
narration:clapping hooves
 and that will make my slumber party officially fun !

Rarity:「( patronizing ) Did you hear that , Applejack ? YOU certainly would not want to do anything that would ruin Twilight 's very first slumber party , WOULD YOU ?」
Applejack:「Of course not . ' N you would n't either , I reckon .」
Rarity:「So do we have an agreement ?」
Applejack:「You betcha . ( spits on hoof )」
Rarity:「( disgusted ) OH ! GROSS ! ( haughty ) You know , there 's messy and there 's just plain rude .」
Applejack:「Y'know , there 's fussy , and there 's just plain gettin ' on my nerves .」
Rarity:「Fortunately , I can get along with anypony , no matter how difficult SHE may be .」
Applejack:「Oh yeah ? ! Well ... I 'm the get - alongin'-est pony yer ever gon na meet !」
Rarity:「( flatly ) That 's not even a word .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( gushing ) This is gon na be the bestest slumber party ever ! YAY !」
Applejack and Rarity:「( unenthusiastic ) Yay .」
narration:thunder

Rarity:「( condescending ) So , how are you " getting along " over there , Applejack ?」
Applejack:「( snarky ) Jus ' fine , Rarity .」
Twilight Sparkle:「This is SO awesome ! ( giggles )」
narration:Makeovers , check .
 magical poofs
 Ooh ! It says here we have to tell ghost stories ! Who wants to go first ? !
Applejack:「ME ! I 'd like to tell y' all the terrifyin ' tale of the prissy ghost who drove everypony crazy with her unnecessary neatness .」
narration:making ghost noises
 I 'm sure Y'ALL are familiar with that one ?
Rarity:「Never heard of it . But I have a MUCH better one . It 's the horrifying story of the messy , ( hyperbolic ) INCONSIDERATE ghost who irritated everypony within a HUNDRED MILES !」
narration:making exaggerated ghost noises
Applejack:「That 's not a real story . You made it up .」
Rarity:「It is a GHOST story . They 're ALL made up .」
narration:thunder , ponies scream
Twilight Sparkle:「I 've got one !」

narration:This story is called ... the Legend of the Headless Horse .
 thunder
 It was a dark and stormy night , much like this one , and three ponies were having a slumber party , just ... like ... this one .
 thunder
Twilight Sparkle:「... and just when the last pony thought she was safe , there , standing right behind her , just inches away was ...」
narration:THE HEADLESS HORSE !
 thunder , Applejack and Rarity gasp and scream
Twilight Sparkle:「Ghost story , check .」
narration:singsong
 Now , who wants s 'm ores ?
Rarity:「... then you place one marshmallow on the top of the chocolate and be sure it 's centered - that 's critical - and then carefully put another perfectly square graham cracker on the top . Aaand ... done ! Ta - da ! ( self - satisfied giggle )」
Twilight Sparkle:「Ooh !」
Applejack:「Nah , ya just eat 'em !」
narration:chomp , loud chewing , lips smacking loudly
 loud belch
Rarity:「( repulsed ) You could at LEAST say , " Excuse me . "」
Applejack:「Aw , I was just about to , but you interrupted me .」
narration:...
 insincere
 Pardon .

Twilight Sparkle:「S 'm ores ? Check . Now , the next item of fun we have to do is Truth or Dare .」
Rarity:「I dare Applejack to do something carefully and neatly for a change .」
Applejack:「Oh yeah ? ! Well , I dare Rarity to lighten up and stop obsessin ' over every . Last . Little . Detail ... for a change .」
Rarity:「I think the TRUTH of the matter is that somepony could stand to pay a little more attention to details .」
Applejack:「And I think the truth is somepony oughta quit with her fussin ' so the rest of us can get things done .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Um ... I do n't think this is how the game 's supposed to work . ( reading ) " You have to give an honest answer to any question or do whatever anypony dares you to do . "」
Applejack:「I dares YOU to step outside and let your precious , tidy mane get ruined again .」
narration:Rarity gasps
Twilight Sparkle:「You HAVE to ! It 's the rules .」
Applejack:「HAH !」
Rarity:「FINE !」
narration:Rarity sobs , slams door
 Applejack snickers
 Applejack chuckles

Rarity:「Okay , I dare Applejack to play dress - up in a fru fru , glittery , lacy outfit .」
narration:Applejack gasps
Applejack:「( embarrassed ) Happy ? !」
Rarity:「( curtly ) Very . ( giggles )」
Twilight Sparkle:「Um , do I ever get a turn ?」
Applejack:「I dare ya to enter the next rodeo when it comes to town .」
Rarity:「I dare you NOT to enter the next rodeo that comes to town !」
Applejack:「I dare ya to not comb yer mane a hundred times before bed .」
Rarity:「And I dare you to comb yours just once !」
Twilight Sparkle:「I , uh , I think we should check off Truth or Dare and move on .」
narration:Let 's see what our next fun fun fun thing is , shall we ? Hm , what does THIS mean ? " Pillow fight ? "
Rarity:「Oh , please . I am not at all interested in participating in something so crude .」

narration:Rarity grunts
 Oh ! It . Is . ON .
 Rarity grunts
 pillow hits Applejack
 kicks pillows
 Rarity grunts repeatedly
 kicks pillows
 pillow whips through air
 magical humming , sound of bullets whizzing past
 pillows whiz past
Twilight Sparkle:「( oblivious ) Oh , I get it !」
narration:Pillow . Fight ! Fun !
 pillows impact , Twilight grunts
 dazed
 Uh , girls ? Maybe we should take it down a notch ?
Applejack:「I will if she will !」
Rarity:「She started it !」
Twilight Sparkle:「( spits ) Maybe we should just call it a night and get some sleep ?」
Rarity:「Keep your muddy hooves on YOUR side of the bed !」
Applejack:「My hooves ai n't muddy !」
Rarity:「They WERE . There might still be a little on them .」
Applejack:「There ai n't . See ?」
Rarity:「Ewww !」
Applejack:「Now who 's bein ' inconsiderate ? !」
Rarity:「I have to make the bed again so the blanket will be right .
 Get up !」
Applejack:「Hey !」
narration:blanket ruffles

Rarity:「( tut - tutting ) You 'll RUIN it !」
narration:You have to do it like this .
 grunting delicately
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 sighs
Applejack:「Yeah ... that 's not gon na happen .」
narration:GERONIMO !
Rarity:「HEY ! ( crash )」
narration:Applejack ahh 's
Rarity:「You did that on PURPOSE .」
Applejack:「( sarcastic ) Um . Yeah ?」
Rarity:「Get up so I can fix it again !」
Applejack:「Ca n't hear ya ! I 'm asleep . ( feigns snoring )」
narration:Rarity grunts
Applejack:「I ai n't budgin ' .」
Rarity:「( mouth full ) Ru rill if ru rant any branket .」
Applejack:「Give it back !」
Rarity:「I will not !」
Applejack:「Yes you will !」
Rarity:「Wo n't !」
Applejack:「Will !」
Rarity:「Wo n't !」
Applejack:「Will-」
Twilight Sparkle:「ENOUGH !」

narration:It says RIGHT HERE that the number one thing you 're supposed to do at slumber parties is have fun ! And thanks to you two , I ca n't check that off !
Applejack:「I 've been tryin ' my darnedest to get along !」
Rarity:「No , it is I who 've been trying MY best .」
Applejack:「No , it was me .」
Rarity:「No , it was I.」
Applejack:「Me !」
Rarity:「I !」
Twilight Sparkle:「I hope you 're happy . Both of you . You 've ruined my very first slumber party ! The makeovers , the s 'm ores , Truth or Dare , the pillow fight ... I mean , is there ANYTHING else that could possibly go wrong ? !」
narration:thunder
 meekly
 Sorry I asked ...
 thunder
 all gasp
Applejack:「Ya see ? That 's why we needed to take down all those little branches in town , not spiffy 'em up !」
Rarity:「( defensively ) But I-」
Applejack:「Outta my way , Missy ! Time 's a - wastin ' .」
narration:rope twirls
Rarity:「Wait ! Stop ! DON'T !」

Applejack:「No waitin ' ! No stoppin ' ! DOIN ' ! And that , my friends , is what we call , " Gettin ' ' er done . "」
narration:Rarity and Twilight scream
 tree crashes into house
Rarity:「( whimpers ) I TRIED to tell you it would come crashing down in here !」
Applejack:「Well , you shoulda tried harder !」
narration:I 'm mighty sorry , Twilight .
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's ... well , it 's not okay ! There 's a giant tree branch in the middle of my bedroom . And the book does n't say anything about having a giant tree branch at your slumber party . Or at least I have n't found the entry yet .」
narration:whimpers
Applejack:「WHAT in tarnation are y' all doin' over there ? !」
Rarity:「Cleaning up this mess SOMEpony made !」
narration:Who was that again ? Oh , right , that 's YOU !
Applejack:「We got ta do somethin' !」
Twilight Sparkle:「" Baking ... BFFs ... Brothers ... " There 's nothing in here about branches !」
narration:Applejack grunts

Applejack:「Rarity , for pony 's sake , stop sweatin ' the small stuff and help me get rid o'this thing !」
narration:I said hustle over here and help me ! Look ... I 'm sorry , all right ?
Rarity:「What was that ?」
Applejack:「I said I 'm sorry ! I shoulda listened to you when you noticed where this here branch would end up . Yer annoyin ' attention to detail woulda saved us from this whole mess . But right now , ya need to stop bein ' so dang fussy pickin ' up all those little things and help me move the one big thing in here that actually matters ! Please !」
Rarity:「( pouts ) But I 'll get all icky !」
Applejack:「Consarn it ! ( stumbles over words ) I mean , yes , ickiness is often a side effect of hard work ! But y' all need to get over it , on account I just ca n't fix this mess I made myself . I need your help .」
Rarity:「Ohh ... (determined ) Let 's do this .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Well , they do have a section about backyard slumber parties . Is that what we 're doing right now ? Does this count as camping ?」

narration:Rarity strains
 musical chimes
 Applejack grunts
Rarity:「( shocked gasp ) I look awful ...」
narration:mud sloshing
Applejack:「Better ?」
Rarity:「Heh ... thanks .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh , pretty ! Where did these come from ?」
narration:... They 're not in the book either .
 all giggling
Applejack:「Is it bigger than a barn ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「( giggles ) Nope !」
Rarity:「Is it smaller than a saddle ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「( giggles ) No ! Only three of your questions left !」
Applejack:「We 're never gon na guess what y'er thinkin ' of , it could be anythin ' .」
Rarity:「Are we getting warmer ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Why ? Is it too cold in here for you ? I can turn up the heat .」
Applejack:「She means are we gettin ' any closer with our guesses ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh ! No . And that technically counted as a question , so only two more left !」

Applejack:「Is it ... a six - legged pony with a purple polka - dotted mane and shootin ' stars comin ' out of his eyes ?」
Rarity:「Who flies through the air all over the world to hide magic , sparkly eggs ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「That 's it !」
Applejack and Rarity:「It is ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「No . ( light chuckle ) It 's that .」
narration:But it was just so nice to see you two finally getting along , I wanted you to be able to win together .
 Applejack and Rarity laugh heartily
Twilight Sparkle:「See ? We could 've been having fun like this all along !」
Applejack:「If only somepony had n't been so persnickety .」
Rarity:「Well , maybe she would n't have been if somepony else had n't been so sloppy .」
Applejack:「Sorry for being such a pain in the patootie .」
Rarity:「Oh , no , I 'm sure I was much worse .」
Applejack:「That 's kind o'ya to say , but I 'm the one who 's sorry .」
Rarity:「Oh , I 'm much more sorry than you are .」
Applejack:「Are not .」

Rarity:「Are too .」
narration:both laughing
Twilight Sparkle:「I declare my first slumber party a success !」
narration:all cheer
 Have fun ? Check .
 Applejack and Rarity laugh
Rarity:「Now take two steps to your left . Uh , no , my left .」
Applejack:「Whu , which is it ? ( crash ) Whoa ! That mess is your fault , not mine . ( laughs )」
Rarity:「( giggles ) Sorry .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( voice - over ) " Dear Princess Celestia , It 's hard to believe that two ponies who seem to have so little in common could ever get along .」

Twilight Sparkle:「Wow , what a gorgeous day !」
Spike:「Rainbow Dash must 've gotten up early for once and cleared all the clouds away .」
Twilight Sparkle:「I bet all of Ponyville is gon na be out enjoying the sunshine . ... What ? Where IS everypony ?」
narration:window slams shut
 door slams
Spike:「Is it some sort of pony holiday ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Not that I know of .」
Spike:「Does my breath stink ? ( breathes fire )」
Twilight Sparkle:「Not more than usual .」
Spike:「Is it ... ZOMBIES ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Uh ... not very likely .」
Spike:「( apprehensively ) Not likely ... but ... possible ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「( hushed ) Psst ! Twilight !」
narration:Spike ! Come here ! Come ! Here !
 HURRY !
 Before she GETS you !
 door slams
 light clicks on , Twilight grunts
Spike:「( fearful ) Who ? ! The zombie pony ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「( voice trembling ) Zoooombie poooony ? !」
narration:Spike shudders

Twilight Sparkle:「Spike ! There are NO zombie ponies !」
narration:Pinkie ! What are you doing here alone in the dark ?
Pinkie Pie:「I 'm not alone in the dark .」
narration:Twilight gasps
Twilight Sparkle:「Okay then , what are you ALL doing here in the dark ?」
Applejack:「( stammering ) We - we 're hidin ' from h - h - her !」
narration:draws curtain
 hoof scraping dirt
 all except Twilight gasp
 theme song begins
 My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」
All:「And magic makes it all complete , yeah ( My Little Pony ) Do you know , you 're all my very best friends」
narration:Spike grunts
Applebloom:「Did you see her , Twilight ? Did you see Zecora ?」

Pinkie Pie:「( exaggerated ) Glance EEEVILLY this way !」
Twilight Sparkle:「And then a bunch of you flip out for no good reason !」
Applejack:「No good reason ? ! You call protectin ' yer kin " no good reason ? " Why , as soon as my sister saw Zecora ridin ' into town ,」
narration:Applebloom shaking audibly
 she started SHAKIN ' in her little horseshoes !
Applebloom:「( voice shaking ) Di - i - i - d n - o - o - o - t !」
Applejack:「So I swept her up and brought ' er here .」
Applebloom:「I walked here myself !」
Applejack:「For safekeepin ' !」
Applebloom:「( rebellious ) Applejack ! I 'm not a baby ! I can take care o 'm yself !」
Applejack:「Not from that creepy Zecora .」
Fluttershy:「She 's mysterious .」
Rainbow Dash:「Sinister .」
Pinkie Pie:「( exaggerated ) And SPO - O - O - O - OKY !」
narration:Twilight grunts
 all except Twilight gasp
Twilight Sparkle:「Will you cut that out ? !」

Rarity:「Just LOOK at those stripes ! So garish !」
Twilight Sparkle:「She 's a zebra .」
Everyone but Twilight:「A WHAT ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「A zebra ! And her stripes are n't a fashion choice , Rarity .」
narration:They 're what she was born with .
 Rarity faints theatrically
Applejack:「Born WHERE ? ! I 've never seen a pony like that in these parts ... 'cept ... ( shudders ) her !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Well , she 's probably not from here .」
narration:And she 's not a pony .
 hoof scratching dirt
 My book says zebras come from a faraway land .
 door opens quietly
 But I 've never seen her in Ponyville .
 Where does she live ?
 spooky theremin music
Applejack:「That 's just it . She lives in ... THE EVERFREE FOREST !」
narration:loud thunder - like crash
Twilight Sparkle:「SPIKE !」
narration:loud thunder - like crash
Spike:「( sheepishly ) Heh ... sorry .」
Applejack:「The Everfree Forest just ai n't natural . The plants grow .」
Fluttershy:「Animals care for themselves ...」

Rainbow Dash:「And the clouds move ...」
All three:「ALL ON THEIR OWN !」
narration:Rarity faints theatrically
Pinkie Pie:「And that wicked enchantress Zecora lives there doing her evil ... uh ... STUFF !」
narration:She 's so evil , I even wrote a song about her !
Rainbow Dash:「( sarcastic ) Here we go ...」
Pinkie Pie:「( singing frantically ) She 's an evil enchantress She does evil dances」
narration:And if you look deep in her eyes She 'll put you in trances
 Then what will she do ? She 'll mix up an evil brew
 And she 'll gobble you up In a big tasty stew
 Sooo ... WATCH OUT !
 song ends
 panting heavily
Twilight Sparkle:「Wow . Catchy .」
Pinkie Pie:「It 's a work in progress .」
Twilight Sparkle:「This is all just a bunch of gossip and rumors .」
narration:Now tell me , what exactly have you SEEN Zecora do ?
Rainbow Dash:「Well ... once a month , she comes into Ponyville .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( mocking ) Ooooh .」
Rarity:「Then she lurks by the stores .」

Twilight Sparkle:「( mocking ) Oh MY !」
Fluttershy:「And then , she digs at the ground ...」
Twilight Sparkle:「( hyperbolic ) Good gracious ! ( normally ) Okay , I 'm sorry . But how is any of this bad ? Maybe she comes to town to visit .」
Applebloom:「Yeah ! Maybe she 's just tryin ' t'be neighborly !」
Twilight Sparkle:「And maybe she 's not LURKING by the stores . Maybe she 's GOING to them , lurk - free , to do some shopping ?」
Applebloom:「Yeah ! Everypony likes to shop !
 You know what I think ?」
Applejack:「APPLEBLOOM !」
narration:Hush and let the big ponies talk !
Applebloom:「( pouting ) I AM a big pony !」
Rainbow Dash:「What about digging at the ground ? You got ta admit THAT 'S weird .」
Fluttershy:「What if she 's digging for innocent creatures ?」
narration:Pinkie Pie singing " Evil Enchantress " in the background
Twilight Sparkle:「I 'm sure there 's an explanation for everything Zecora does .」

narration:And if ANYPONY here were actually brave enough to approach her , she would find out the truth .
Applebloom:「Well , I 'm brave enough ! I 'm gon na find out myself !」
narration:Applebloom gasps , gulps
 hoof scrapes dirt
Twilight Sparkle:「You ponies are being RIDICULOUS !」
Pinkie Pie:「( ominously ) Well , I heard that Zecora eats HAY .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( exasperated ) Pinkie . I eat hay . YOU eat hay .」
Pinkie Pie:「Yeah , but I heard it 's the EVIL way she eats hay .」
Applejack:「( worried ) Hey ! Where 's Applebloom ? !」
Fluttershy:「The door 's open !」
Rarity:「She went outside ? !」
Rainbow Dash:「And Zecora 's still out there !」
Applejack:「( worried ) That silly little filly ! I told her to stay put !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Spike , you stay here in case Applebloom comes back .」
Spike:「Will do !」
narration:strange noises
 Applebloom gulps
Applejack:「Applebloom ? !」

narration:Applebloom gasps
Applejack:「You get back here right now !」
Zecora:「( African accent , speaking in meter ) Beware ! Beware , you pony folk ! Those leaves of blue are not a joke !」
Applejack:「You keep yer creepy mumbo - jumbo to yerself , ya hear ? !」
narration:ponies talking over each other , Pinkie Pie singing " Evil Enchantress "
Twilight Sparkle:「( sighs ) Oh brother .」
Zecora:「( fading ) Beware ! BEWARE !」
Rainbow Dash:「Yeah , back atcha , Zecora !」
narration:You and your ... lame ... curse are the ones who better beware !
Applejack:「And YOU ! Why could n't you just listen to your big sister ? !」
Applebloom:「( stammering ) I ... I ...」
Applejack:「Who knows what kinda nasty curse Zecora coulda just put on you ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「Just like in my song ! ( singing ) Evil enchantress , with the dances , and the trances」
Twilight Sparkle:「You guys ! There 's no such thing as curses !」

Rainbow Dash:「Well , that 's interesting to hear , coming from Miss Magic - pants herself .」
Twilight Sparkle:「My magic - REAL magic - comes from within . It 's a skill you 're born with . Curses are artificial . Fake magic . It 's conjured with potions and incantations . All smoke and mirrors meant to scare . But curses have no real power . They 're just an old pony tale .」
Applejack:「Just you wait , Twilight . You 're gon na learn that some pony tales really are true .」
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) She 's an evil enchantress , she does evil dances」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices
Zecora:「Beware ! BEWARE !」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) If you look deep in her eyes , she will put you in trances」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters
Rainbow Dash:「Yeah , was that supposed to scare us ? !」
Rarity:「Wicked , wicked diva ! Fluttershy」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) Then what will she do ?」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices

Applejack:「Just you wait , Twilight . Some pony tales really are true .」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices
Pinkie Pie:「( singing ) Then she 'll gobble you up in a big tasty stew」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices
Pinkie Pie:「Soooo ... WATCH OUT ! ( Zecora laughs sinisterly )」
narration:Twilight dreaming other characters ' voices
 Twilight whimpering in sleep
 rooster crows
Twilight Sparkle:「( groggily ) Ugh ... what a dream ...」
narration:Curses - shmurses . Whoa !
 chuckles
 Maybe Zecora cursed my hair .
 laughs nervously , gasps
 panicked
 Or she cursed my horn !
Twilight Sparkle:「No , no , no , no , NO ! None of these books have a cure !」
narration:horn flops
 groans
 There has to be a real reason for this !
 An illness ? An allergy ? !
Spike:「A curse !」
Twilight Sparkle:「I said a real reason . Something that points to something real .」
Spike:「How about this one ?」

Twilight Sparkle:「( reading ) " Supernaturals ? " Spike , the word " supernatural " refers to things like ghosts , and spirits , and zombies , which are as make - believe as curses . This book is just a bunch of hooey !」
Spike:「But what if you 're wrong , Twilight ?
 What if this really is a-」
Pinkie Pie:「( garbled ) A THURTH !」
Spike:「A purse ? ! How could it be a purse ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Pinkie ! What happened ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「( garbled , spitting ) Ipth wapth Zeporptha ! Spthe thputh a curth on me !」
Spike:「Augh ! Say it , do n't spray it , Pinkie !」
narration:loud thud
Rainbow Dash:「Ow ! ( loud thud ) Oh ! She 's ( thud ) trying to say - ow ! Zecora- ( thud , grunt ) ( door crashes open ) She slapped us all with a- ( thud ) ow ! Curse .」
Rarity:「I 'm afraid I have to agree .」
narration:blows hair out of face
 Spike and Twilight yelp in surprise

Applejack:「( high - pitched voice ) I hate to say I told ya so , Twilight , but I told ya so !」
narration:Twilight and Spike gasp
Applejack:「it 's a curse , I tells ya !」
Twilight Sparkle:「But ... Fluttershy ... seems just fine .」
Rarity:「Yes , there does n't seem to be a THING wrong with her .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Fluttershy ? Are you okay ?」
narration:Is there something wrong with you ?
Twilight Sparkle:「... Would you care to tell us ?」
narration:horn flopping
 So ... you 're NOT gon na tell us ?
 Yes you 're not , or yes you will ?
Applejack:「Good gravy , girl ! What 's wrong with you ? !」
Fluttershy:「( baritone manly voice ) I do n't wanna talk about it ...」
narration:Spike snorts and bursts into raucous laughter
Spike:「This is HILARIOUS ! ( laughing )」

Look at all of you ! We got:「Hairity [ Rarity ] , Rainbow Crash [ Dash ] , Spittie [ Pinkie ] Pie , Appleteeny [ appletini ] , Flutterguy [ Fluttershy ] , and ... uh ... I got nothin' . " Twilight Sparkle . " I mean , seriously . I ca n't even work with that .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( sarcastic laughter ) This is no joke , Spike .」
narration:horn flops noisily
 Now start looking for more books so I can find a cure !
 horn flops noisily
 Spike groans
 Rainbow Dash strains , pops out of ladder
Rainbow Dash:「I think we 'll find a cure to this curse at Zecora 's place !」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's not a curse !」
narration:Rainbow Dash crashes
Applejack:「I agree with Dash !」
narration:We 'll go to Zecora 's and force her to remove this hex !
 Rainbow Dash zips around
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's not a hex either !」
narration:all but Applebloom arguing
Applebloom:「This is all my fault .」

narration:If I had n't followed Zecora in the first place , none of this would 've happened . I just got ta fix this .
Applejack:「Now , where does she think she 's goin' this time ? !」
Rainbow Dash:「I do n't care what you say , Twilight ! It 's time to pony up and confront Zecora ! Come on , girls ! Are you with me ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「I ampth !」
Rarity:「And I , as well .」
Fluttershy:「Uh , I do n't know . Seems awfully dangerous .」
narration:Spike giggles
Rainbow Dash:「How 'bout you , Applejack ? ... Applejack ?」
Pinkie Pie:「She'thp gonthe !」
Rarity:「( panicked shriek ) Or somepony stepped on her !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Or ... sat on her ?」
narration:horn flops
Rainbow Dash:「Rarity 's hair !」
Rarity:「( squealing ) Oh ! OH ! Pinkie , what are you doing ? ! Really ! ( squeals ) You ever hear of personal space ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「Nopeth .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Applebloom is gone too !」

Rainbow Dash:「I bet they went after Zecora !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Well , we better go find them .」
narration:Rainbow Dash crashes
Twilight Sparkle:「Come on , girls , let 's go .」
Rarity:「( strains theatrically ) Oh dear ! Oh , this is SO unseemly !」
narration:exaggerated yelp
Rainbow Dash:「( dragging along floor ) Hey ! A little help , here ?」
Fluttershy:「Oopsie ! Sorry .」
narration:sound of plane spinning out of control , crash
Rainbow Dash:「OW !」
Fluttershy:「Uh , Spike ? Are you coming ?」
Spike:「Nope ! Uh ... gotta stay here and look for a cure .」
narration:gasps
 " Twilight Flopple ! " [ Sparkle ]
Applejack:「Stop right there !」
narration:Turn around right now , missy !
Applebloom:「( rebellious ) No .」
Applejack:「No ? ! You ca n't ignore a direct order from your big sister !」
narration:Applejack grunts
Applebloom:「( giggles ) Sorry , Applejack , but I'M the big sister now .」

Applejack:「Applebloom ! You come back here right this instant !」
narration:blustering
 I'M GONNA TELL BIG MACINTOSH ON YOU !
 upset
 Aw , ponyfeathers .
Twilight Sparkle:「Come on , girls ! We 've got to get to Zecora 's !」
narration:Hurry !
 Rarity trips
Rarity:「( yelps ) Easier said than done !」
Rainbow Dash:「Hey ! Wait for me !」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 Rainbow Dash screams , sound of plane spinning out of control , crash
 Rainbow Dash groans , tree falls
Applejack:「Rainbow ! Thank Celestia !」
narration:There 's no time to lose !
 banjo music
 I need to get to Zecora 's , pronto ! Giddyap , pony !
Rainbow Dash:「Ex - CUSE me ?」
Applejack:「( kicks Rainbow Dash 's thigh ) YEE - HAW !」
Rainbow Dash:「What the ? !」
Applejack:「No , Rainbow Dash ! Other way !」
Rarity:「( theatrically ) Oh ! I look HORRIBLE !」
Pinkie Pie:「Thish plashp looksh horriplesh !」

Rarity:「Oh my . That place really DOES look horrible !
 Nice decorations . If you like CREEPY !」
narration:door opens
 ponies gasp
 cauldron bubbling
 Zecora speaking native language
Pinkie Pie:「She shtole my sthong !」
narration:She
 unintelligible babble
 !
Rarity:「She stole your song ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Oh , Pinkie . That does n't sound anything like your song .」
Pinkie:「( blows air over tongue ) ... Ah !」
narration:Pinkie tries and fails to talk
 inquisitive yelp
 Fluttershy sighs
Fluttershy:「( singing baritone unenthusiastically ) She 's an evil enchantress She does evil dances」
narration:And if you look deep in her eyes She will put you in trances
 Then what will she do ? She 'll mix up an evil brew
 Then she 'll gobble you up In a big tasty stew
 Soooo ... watch out .
Rarity:「YOU saw those terrible things ! NOW do you believe us , Twilight ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Scary looking masks , confusing incantations , and a great big bubbling cauldron ?」

narration:horn flopping
 sighs
 Everything IS pointing to Zecora being ... bad !
 Or ... what if Zecora 's just making soup ?
Zecora:「( tastes soup , speaking in meter ) Mmm . The perfect temperature for ponies , I presume . Now , where is that little Applebloom ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「( fearful ) Or ... what if she 's making Applebloom Soup ? What if she 's making Applebloom Soup ?」
narration:ponies scream , Fluttershy in a very low pitch
 Rainbow Dash screams
Applejack:「I 'm comin ' for ya , Applebloom !」
narration:door crashes open , Zecora speaks native language frantically , Rainbow Dash crashes into various things
Applejack:「Whoa there !」
narration:Easy , Rainbow Crash !
 glass breaks , Zecora speaks native language
 Rainbow Dash screams , Zecora speaks native language , door slams , horn flops
Twilight Sparkle:「( horn flops ) What have you done with Applebloom ? !」
Zecora:「No ! No ! ( speaks native language )」
narration:Rainbow Dash screams , crashes
 rope twirls
 Applejack grunts repeatedly , Rainbow Dash screams
 crash

Zecora:「Ponies ! What is this you-」
narration:Rainbow Dash screams , cauldron falls over and spills contents
 speaking in meter
 No ! You know not what you do ! You 've gone and spilled my precious brew !
 stew pours onto ground
Twilight Sparkle:「We 're onto you , Zecora ! I did n't want to believe you cursed us , but the evidence is overwhelming !」
Rarity:「You made me look ridiculous !」
Fluttershy:「You made me SOUND ridiculous !」
narration:Pinkie Pie talks and spits unintelligibly
Twilight Sparkle:「( horn flops ) You ruined my horn !」
Zecora:「How dare you ? !」
narration:speaking in meter
 You destroy my home , destroy my work , then rudely accuse me of being a jerk ? !
Rainbow Dash:「You put this curse on us , now you 're gon na UNcurse us !」
Zecora:「( speaking in meter ) It is unwise to venture down this road . Your actions will make my anger explode !」
narration:ponies gasp
Twilight Sparkle:「( accusatory , horn flops ) Where is Applebloom ?」
narration:Twilight and Zecora butt heads

Applebloom:「Zecora ! I think I found all the things ya asked for .」
narration:What in Ponyville is goin' on here ? !
Applejack:「( gasps ) Applebloom ! You 're okay !」
Applebloom:「Why would n't I be ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Because Zecora is an evil enchantress who cursed us and was going to cook you up into soup !」
narration:horn flops
 Zecora and Applebloom laugh
Applebloom:「Oh , Twilight !」
narration:Did those silly fillies finally get in yer head ? Y'know there 's no such thing as a curse !
Twilight Sparkle:「( horn flops , condescending ) Applebloom , sweetie , you ca n't just stand there and tell me this is n't a curse !」
Applebloom:「( flatly ) This is n't a curse .」
Zecora:「( metric ) If you will remember back , the words I spoke were quite exact . ( in flashback ) Beware ! Beware , you ponyfolk ! Those leaves of blue are not a joke !」
Applebloom:「It was a warning . About that blue plant . It 's called Poison Joke .」

Zecora:「That plant is much like poison oak , but its results are like a joke .」
Applejack:「WHAT in the hay does that mean ?」
Zecora:「It means this plant does not breed wrath . Instead , this plant just wants a laugh .」
Applejack:「Will SOMEpony please talk normal ? !」
Twilight Sparkle:「I think what she 's saying is that when we ran in to save Applebloom , we ran into the Poison Joke . All our problems were just little jokes it played on us .」
Applejack:「" LITTLE " jokes ? ! ( sarcastic ) Very funny .」
Rainbow Dash:「Ok , fine . But what about the cauldron ?」
Fluttershy:「And the chanting ?」
Rarity:「And the creepy decor ?」
Zecora:「Treasures of the native land where I am from . This one speaks ' hello ' , and this ' welcome ' .」
Rarity:「Not welcoming at all , if you ask me .」
Zecora:「The words I chanted were from olden times . Something you call a nursery rhyme .」
Twilight Sparkle:「But the cauldron ... The Applebloom Soup ?」

Applebloom:「Lookie here , Twilight ! That pot o'water was n't for me ! It was for all these herbal ingredients ! The cure for Poison Joke is a simple old natural remedy ! You just got ta take a bubble bath !」
Twilight Sparkle:「( horn flops ) But I tried to find a cure in all my books and could n't find anything . What book has this natural remedy ?」
Zecora:「Here is the book , you see ? Sad that you lack it in your library .」
Twilight Sparkle:「( embarrassed ) Actually , I do have this book , but I did n't look inside because the title was so ... Weird .( reading ) " Supernaturals」
narration:horn flops
 I had the answer the whole time , if only I had bothered to look inside .
Zecora:「[ chuckle ] Maybe next time you will take a second look , and not judge the cover of the book .」
narration:Applebloom giggles
Twilight Sparkle:「Zecora ? Would you be kind enough to mix up another batch of the herbal bath ?」
Zecora:「Mix it up I certainly will . Yet I am missing an herb from Ponyville .」
Applebloom:「But whenever Zecora comes to town , all the shops are mysteriously closed !」

Twilight Sparkle:「( horn flops ) Oh , well ... I think we can help you with that .」
narration:ponies chattering
Daisy:「Look , Rose ! How awful !」
Rose:「The wicked enchantress has cursed them all !」
Lily:「The horror ! The horror !」
narration:ponies screaming over each other , doors slamming
 Twilight knocks on door
Twilight Sparkle:「Daisy ? We need to talk .( voice - over ) " Dear Princess Celestia , my friends and I all learned an important lesson this week :」

Pinkie Pie:「Hoof - biting action overload ! She was like a sun superstar , flying higher and higher , and then Rainbow Dash swooshed down - SWOOSH ! and right before she hit the ground , SHOOM ! she pulled up ! ( imitates motor revving )」
Twilight Sparkle:「( distracted ) Uh - huh . And then she looped around and around like " whoom , whoom , whoom , whoom , whoom , whoom , WHOOM ! "」
narration:Pinkie Pie crashes into ground
Twilight Sparkle:「( distracted ) Uh - huh .」
narration:Rainbow Dash whooshing overhead
 Twilight sighs with relief and flips page
Pinkie Pie:「Hey , Rainbow Dash !」
Rainbow Dash:「( groans , under breath ) Pinkie Pie ? Not again ...」
narration:Rainbow Dash ! Not now , Pinkie Pie !
Pinkie Pie:「But - but , Rainbow Dash-」
Rainbow Dash:「I 'm in the middle of something !」
Pinkie Pie:「But-」
Rainbow Dash:「I said , not now !」
narration:crash , grunt
 sliding down cliff
Pinkie Pie:「I was gon na tell you to look out for that mountain !」

narration:Rainbow Dash grumbles
 theme song begins
 My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」
All:「And magic makes it all complete , yeah ( My Little Pony ) Do you know you 're all my very best friends」
narration:Pinkie Pie humming tunelessly
Pinkie Pie:「( sweetly ) Hi ! I 'm looking for Rainbow Dash , have you seen her ?
 Hi there ! Have you seen Rainbow Dash ?」
narration:Okay , thanks anyway .
Pinkie Pie:「Twilight ! Have you seen Rainbow Dash anywhere ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「... Is n't she right up there ?」
Pinkie Pie:「( singsong ) Rainbow DA ~ SH !」
narration:Rainbow Dash grunts frantically
 whoosh
Rainbow Dash:「( out of breath ) Phew ... that was close ...」

Pinkie Pie:「Hi !」
narration:Rainbow Dash screams , whooshes off
 whoosh
 panting
 whoosh
 whoosh , whoosh , whoosh
 water splashing lightly
Pinkie Pie:「( spits ) I need a favor , Rainbow Dash .」
Rainbow Dash:「( screams , winds up ) ... Aw , forget it .」
narration:thud
 I tooootally promise it 'll be tooootally fun !
 sighs , resigned
 Okay ... Over to the right . Nono , a liiittle to the left . Oh wait , back to the right . Now , a liiiittle left - ish while staying rightly . Stop ! Hmm ... Maybe a few inches to the south ! And now a couple centimeters north !
Pinkie Pie:「Okay . One more smidgimeter to the-」
Rainbow Dash:「( exasperated ) PINKIE PIIIIE !」
Pinkie Pie:「Uh , I mean , perfect ! Now , wait for my signal .」
narration:Spike humming My Little Pony theme
 thunder , Spike screams
 hiccup
 Spike hiccuping , Pinkie Pie snickering
Pinkie Pie:「( laughing ) Oh Rainbow Dash , we startled Spike into getting the hiccups !」
narration:Rainbow Dash chuckles
Spike:「( laughing ) Good one , Pinkie ( hiccup ) Pie ! ( hiccup )」
narration:You 're always pullin ' a fast one
 hiccup
 on me !
 hiccups fire , yelps
Pinkie Pie:「( worried ) Oh no , you 're not hurt , are you ?」
Spike:「No- ( hiccup ) do n't be ( hiccup ) silly , dragons are ( hiccup ) fireproof .」
narration:pop
 Oh , okay . Good .
 Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash laugh uproariously
Spike:「( hiccups fire ) I wish the same thing ( hiccup ) were true of scrolls ...」
narration:Princess Celestia gasps , scrolls clatter
 Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash laugh
 Spike hiccups fire repeatedly
 Have you ever SEEN anything more HILARIOUS ? ! I can think of ONE thing ...
 thunder , Pinkie Pie shrieks
 laughter punctuated by hiccups
 I did n't take you for a prankster , Pinkie Pie ! Are you
 exaggerated hiccup
 kidding ? !
 exaggerated hiccup
 I LOVE to pull pranks ! It 's all
 exaggerated hiccup
 in good fun , and Pinkie Pie lo-
 hiccup
 -oooves to have
 hiccup
 fun !
 hiccup
 You know , Pinkie Pie , you 're not as annoying as I thought !
 Pinkie Pie hiccup - snorts
 You wanna hang out ? !
 Pinkie Pie hiccups
 That 'd be-
 hiccup , whoosh
 I 'd really
 hiccup
 When do
 hiccup , whoosh
 I mean
 hiccup
 Why would you
 horn honks
Rainbow Dash:「A simple nod will do .」
Pinkie Pie:「( muffled ) Mm - hmm .」

Rainbow Dash:「( whispering ) Is she even home ?」
Pinkie Pie:「( whispering ) I do n't know , but I think she called . ( both snicker )」
Rainbow Dash:「There she is !」
Rarity:「Ooh !」
narration:Rarity sniffs , whimpers lightly , sneezes repeatedly
 Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash laugh
 Pinkie Pie sneezes into distance
 liquid pours , bubbles
Twilight Sparkle:「Huh ? !」
narration:bubbling intensifies
 explosion
 Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash laughing uproariously
 Applejack gasps
Applejack:「Land sakes !」
narration:Rainbow Dash snickers
 both laugh
 apples impact , splash
 Applejack chuckles
 squeak
 pump squeaks in Pinkie Pie 's mouth
Pinkie Pie:「( muffled ) Ish shomeone over dere ?」
narration:Who we gon na squirt ? ! Who we gon na squirt ? !
Rainbow Dash:「( snickers ) Fluttershy .」
Pinkie Pie:「( muffled ) WHAT ? ! ( spits ) Nononononono . ( insistent ) We CAN'T prank Fluttershy , I mean , she 's SO sensitive , it 'll hurt her feelings , even our most harmless prank !」

Rainbow Dash:「Yeah ... you 're right . Huh ... We need another victim who 's made of tougher stuff . So , who 's it gon na be ?」
Pinkie Pie:「Oh ! ( giggles ) I 've got SOMEone in mind ! ( giggles ) The TOUGHEST around ! Awesome ! Who ? ! Who ? ! Do I know them ?
 ( giggles ) Oh , yes ! ( giggles ) You 're VERY close !」
Rainbow Dash:「( chuckles ) Good one , Pinkie Pie !」
narration:Rainbow Dash chuckles
 both laugh
 toy wobbles
 Pinkie Pie blows party blower repeatedly
 Rise and shine , Rainbow Dash ! It 's a brand new day , and we 've got a LOT of pranking to- Ooh ...
Rainbow Dash:「Mornin ' , Pink ! ( whoosh ) Gilda , this is my gal pal , Pinkie Pie .」
narration:metal riff
Gilda:「( disinterested ) Hey . What 's up ?」
Rainbow Dash:「Pinkie , this is my griffon friend , Gilda .」
Pinkie Pie:「What 's a griffon ?」
( metal bass line playing ) Rainbow Dash:「She 's half - eagle , half - lion-」
Gilda:「And ALL awesome .」
narration:metal bass line
 Gilda and Rainbow Dash chuckling
Rainbow Dash:「Gilda 's my best friend from my days at Junior Speedster flight camp . Hey ! Remember the chant ? ! ( derisively ) Oh yeah , they made us recite it every morning . I 'll never get that lame thing out of my head .
 Soooooo ?」
Gilda:「( groan , monotone ) Only for you , Dash .」
Rainbow Dash:「( spirited chanting ) Junior Speedsters are our lives」
Gilda:「( bored chanting ) Junior Speedsters are our lives」
Rainbow Dash:「( spirited ) Sky - bound soars and daring dives」
Gilda:「( bored ) Sky - bound soars and daring dives」
Rainbow Dash:「( spirited ) Junior Speedsters , it 's our quest」
Gilda:「( bored ) Junior Speedsters , it 's our quest」
Rainbow Dash:「( spirited ) To someday be the very best」
Gilda:「( bored ) To someday be the very best」
narration:Pinkie Pie laughing and slapping hoof on ground
Pinkie Pie:「Oh , that was awesome , and it gave me a great idea for a prank ! ( grunts ) Gilda , you game ?」
narration:Huh . Well , I groove on a good prank as much as the next griffon , but Dash , you promised me we 'd get a flying session in this morning . Yeah ... uh ... well , Pinkie Pie , you do n't mind , do you ?
Rainbow Dash:「Gilda just got here . We 'll catch up with you later !」

Pinkie Pie:「Oh ... um ... sure , no problem ! Have fun , you guys ! So I'll ... just catch up with you ... ( sighs dejectedly ) later ...」
narration:party blower blowing sad descending note
 wind blowing
 jets whoosh by
 wind howling , Gilda streaks past
 approaching jet , soft thud
 both laughing
Gilda:「Whoa ! That was sweet !」
narration:Just like old times .
Rainbow Dash:「Yeah , only faster !」
narration:brohoof
 So , now what ?
Pinkie Pie:「Hey there !」
Both:「Huh ?」
Pinkie Pie:「It 's later !
 And I caught up !」
narration:Pinkie Pie bouncing on trampoline
 Pinkie Pie bouncing
Rainbow Dash:「Pinkie Pie , you are so random !」
narration:Pinkie Pie bouncing
Gilda:「Hey Dash , think you got enough gas left to beat me to that cloud ? !」
narration:Pinkie Pie bouncing
Rainbow Dash:「A race ? ! You are so on !」
Gilda:「One , two , three , GO ! ( whoosh )」
Pinkie Pie:「Hey ... !」
Rainbow Dash:「I win !」
Gilda:「As IF . I won , dude !」
Rainbow Dash:「No way !」
Gilda:「Yes way !」
Rainbow Dash:「Oh come on , I was way ahead of you !」
Gilda:「Uh , I do n't think so .」
Rainbow Dash:「Oh please , dream on . There is NO way you beat me .」
Gilda:「Remember back in camp ? I-」
Pinkie Pie:「Wow , guys , that was really cool ! But I think Rainbow Dash beat you by a teeny - weeny , itty - bitty little hair , or a teeny - weeny , itty - bitty feather !」
Rainbow Dash:「Hah , see ? ! Good thing Pinkie Pie 's here to keep you honest , G !」
Gilda:「( irritated ) Okay , Dash , last one to that cloud up there is a gnarly dragon egg . GO !」
narration:whoosh
 metal bass line
Gilda:「( hostile ) I think the high altitude is making you dizzy .」
narration:popping balloons
Pinkie Pie:「Wait ! Guys-」
narration:whoosh
 whoosh
 bizarre contraption noises
Pinkie Pie:「Oh , wow , you guys almost got away from me that time !」
narration:bizarre contraption noises
Gilda:「So , Dash , got any new moves in your tricktionary ,」
narration:bizarre contraption noises
 or are you % old school ?
 bizarre contraption noises
Rainbow Dash:「New moves ? ! Hah ! Sit back , G , this is gon na take a while .」
narration:metal bass line
Gilda:「Hey Pinkie , c 'm ere .」
Pinkie Pie:「Yeah ?」

narration:metal bass line
Gilda:「( threatening ) Do n't you know how to take GET LOST for an answer ? !」
narration:metal bass line
 intimidating
 Dash does n't need to hang with a dweeb like YOU while I'M around .
 metal bass line
 mocking
 You 're dorkin ' up the skies , Stinky Pie ,
 metal bass line
 threatening
 so make like a bee and BUZZ OFF !
 metal bass line
 Pinkie Pie screaming and spinning
 metal bass line
Rainbow Dash:「Try matching THAT ! ... Hey , where 's Pinkie Pie and her crazy contraption ?」
Gilda:「Eh , she left . Something about being ... ( sardonic ) ... as busy as a bee .」
narration:contraption noises winding down , distorted
 Pinkie Pie " hmphs "
Twilight Sparkle:「So , Pinkie Pie , are you sure that this friend of Rainbow Dash is really so mean ?」
Pinkie Pie:「Um , YEAH ! She keeps stealing Rainbow Dash away , she popped my balloons , and she told me to buzz off !」

narration:I 've never met a griffon this mean ! Well , actually , I 've never met a griffon at all , but I bet if I had , she would n't have been as mean and grumpy as GILDA .
Twilight Sparkle:「You know what I think , Pinkie Pie ?」
Pinkie Pie:「Hmm ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「( hesitantly ) Well , I think ... you 're jealous .」
Pinkie Pie:「( incredulous ) JEALOUS ? !」
Spike:「Green with envy . Well , in your case , pink with envy .」
Twilight Sparkle:「Well , yes . Jealous . Listen , Pinkie , I do n't wanna upset you , but just because Rainbow Dash has another friend does n't make Gilda a grump . I mean , perhaps it 's YOU , Pinkie , who needs to improve her attitude .」
Pinkie Pie:「Improve MY attitude ? ! But I ... ( stammering ) Gilda 's a ... ( stammering ) are you seri- ( screams )」

narration:door slams , Twilight sighs
 Maybe Twilight is right ... Maybe Gilda is n't a big meany grumpy mean - meany - pants . Maybe I 'm just a big jealous judgmental jealous - jealousy - pants .
 sighs dejectedly
 slurping
Gilda:「( whoosh , laughs ) That was sweet !」
narration:Pinkie 's hooves clatter on table
Rainbow Dash:「Uh , I got ta take care of a few weather jobs around here . Should n't take long . Just , uh , hang out in town and I 'll come find ya .」
Gilda:「That 's cool , I guess . ( macho ) I 'm gon na go chow down !」
Rainbow Dash:「Later ! ( screams , shouts feebly ) A RATTLER ! A RATTLER !」
narration:RUN FOR THE HILLS ! EVERYBODY FORSAKE YOURSELVES !
 slow , discordant banjo strumming
 This stuff ai n't fresh , dude .
 discordant banjo strumming
Pinkie Pie:「Aw , poor Granny Smith ! She did n't know it was a joke !」
narration:How mean ! ... No , no , I ca n't misjudge her .
 unsure
 It was kind of a funny prank ... I guess ...
 chomps
 gasps
 I DID misjudge her ! She 's not only a meany mean - pants , she 's also a thief ! ... Nononono ... she might give it back ! It 's just a joke !
Fluttershy:「All right , little ones , this way , this way . Mama duck is free and clear .」
Gilda:「HEY .」
Fluttershy:「Please excuse me .」
Gilda:「( forcefully ) I 'm WALKIN ' here .」
Fluttershy:「( meekly ) Oh , um , I 'm sorry ...
 I - I was just trying to-」
Gilda:「( mocking in a whiny voice ) I 'm sorry ! I 'm sorry ! ( nastily ) Why do n't you just watch where you 're GOING , DOOFUS ? !」
Fluttershy:「( stammering ) B - b - b - but I ...」
narration:inhales , roars like a lion
 Fluttershy sobs
 derisively
 Ugh , please . All these lame ponies are driving me buggy . I got ta bail .
 whoosh
 She 's a grump AND a thief AND a bully ! The meanest kind of mean meany - pants there is ! I can take it , but NO ONE treats Fluttershy like that !
 NO . ONE .
 This calls for EXTREME measures ! Pinkie Pie style !
 perky
 Welcome ! Welcome ! Welcome !
Applejack:「Who 's this " Gilda " I 've heard nothin' about ?」
Rarity:「I hear she 's an old friend of Rainbow Dash . A griffon ! So rare .」
Twilight Sparkle:「You 've met Gilda , right ? What 's she like ?」

Fluttershy:「Oh ! Um , well ... I'll tell you later , Twilight .」
Pinkie Pie:「Welcome ! Welcome !」
Fluttershy:「Um , Pinkie Pie , about this party for Gilda , Um , do you really think it 's a good idea ? I mean-」
Pinkie Pie:「Do n't worry your pretty little head about mean old Gilda ! Your Auntie Pinkie Pie has got it aaall taken care of !」
Fluttershy:「I 'm a year older than you .」
Pinkie Pie:「GILDA ! I 'm so honored to throw you one of my signature Pinkie Pie Parties ! And I really , truly , sincerely hope you feel welcome here amongst all us ponyfolk !」
narration:joy buzzer shocks Gilda
 Gilda crashes to ground
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 ponies laughing
 Pinkie Pie giggling
Rainbow Dash:「Oh , Pinkie Pie . The ol' hoof - shake buzzer ! You are a SCREAM !」
Gilda:「( chuckles nervously ) Yeah , uh , good one , Pinkie Pie .」
Rainbow Dash:「C 'm on G , I 'll introduce you to some of my other friends .」
Gilda:「Right behind you , Dash ! ( menacingly , under breath ) I know what you 're up to .」
Pinkie Pie:「( unfazed ) Great !」
Gilda:「Grrr ... I know what you 're planning !」
Pinkie Pie:「( giggles , snorts ) Well , I HOPE so ! This was n't supposed to be a SURPRISE party !」
Gilda:「I mean , I 've got my eye on you .」
Pinkie Pie:「And I'VE got my eye on YOU ! Everyone , I 'd like you all to meet Gilda , a long - time dear friend of Rainbow Dash . Let 's honor her and welcome her to Ponyville !」
narration:ponies cheer
Pinkie Pie:「Please help yourself !」
Gilda:「Vanilla lemon drops ! Do n't mind if I do .」
narration:gulps
Gilda:「( breathes fire , pants ) HOOOOT !」
Rainbow Dash:「G , the punch !」
narration:siren blaring
 Gilda gasping , gulping
 Huh ? !
Pinkie Pie:「Well , whaddya know ? ! Pepper in the vanilla lemon drops , and the punch served in a dribble glass !」
Rainbow Dash:「Ha ! Priceless , priceless ! ( laughing )」
narration:Gilda gulps water , pants
 sarcastic
 Yeah . Hilarious .
Rainbow Dash:「Hey G , look ! Presents !」
narration:pop , ponies laugh
Applejack:「Spittin ' snakes ! Heh , somepony pulled that prank on me last month !」
narration:sardonic
 Ha ha . I bet I know who THAT was .
Pinkie Pie:「( quizzically ) You do ?」
narration:ponies chatter

Pinkie Pie:「Cake time , everypony !」
Spike:「Hey ! Can I blow out the candles ?」
Twilight Sparkle:「Why do n't we let Gilda blow out the candles , Spike ?」
narration:She IS the guest of honor , after all .
 Spike yelps , crashes into wall
Gilda:「EXACTLY .」
narration:inhales sharply , blows
 ponies laughing
 Gilda blows repeatedly
Spike:「Relighting birthday candles ! I LOVE that prank ! What a classic !」
Pinkie Pie:「Now , I wonder who could 've done that ?」
narration:metal bass line
Gilda:「( sardonic ) Yeah . I wonder .」
Spike:「( splats into cake ) Mm ! Who cares , this cake is AMAZING !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Spike !」
Spike:「( mouth full ) What ? It 's h great ! Try shome !」
Rainbow Dash:「Hey G , you 're not upset about some silly candles , are you ?」
Gilda:「( false bravado ) No way , Dash ! Like I said , I 'm down with a good prank .」
Rainbow Dash:「Come on , then ! Let 's have some cake .」

narration:Pinkie Pie chomps , whimpers in confusion
 metal bass line
Gilda:「( threateningly ) Hey . I 'm watching you . Like a hawk .」
Pinkie Pie:「( sweetly ) Why ? Ca n't you watch me like a griffon ?」
Applejack:「Hey y' all ! It 's Pin the Tail on the Pony ! Let 's play !」
Rarity:「Oh , my FAVORITE game ! Can I go first ? ! Can I have the purple tail ?」
Gilda:「( self - importantly ) Well , I'M the guest of honor ! And I'LL have the purple tail !」
Pinkie Pie:「Yeah ! Gilda should definitely go first ! Let 's get you blindfolded .」
Gilda:「Hey - what - what 're you doing ? ! Augh !」
narration:Gilda spinning
Pinkie Pie:「We 're gon na spin you around and around , and then you pin the tail on the pony !
 Now , just walk straight ahead and pin the tail ! Gilda」
narration:sarcastic
 Yeah , right . This is another prank , is n't it ?
Gilda:「I'M goin' this way .」
Pinkie Pie:「W - Wait ... the poster is this w-」
narration:Gilda screaming repeatedly , crashes
Pinkie Pie:「Uh , Gilda ? You pinned the tail on the wrong end !」
narration:ponies laugh
 lion roar
Gilda:「( maliciously ) THIS is your idea of a good time ? !」
narration:I 've NEVER met a lamer bunch of dweebs in all my life ! And Pinkie Pie ... YOU are Queen Lame - o with your weak little party pranks , Do you REALLY think you can make me lose my cool ? ! Well , Dash and I have ten TIMES as much cool as the REST of you put together ! Come on , Dash , we 're bailing on this PATHETIC scene . ... Come ON , Rainbow Dash !
 I SAID , WE'RE LEAVING !
Rainbow Dash:「... Y'know , Gilda ? I was the one who set up all those " weak " pranks at this party .」
Gilda:「( shocked ) ... W - what ? !」
Pinkie Pie:「Ooh .」
Rainbow Dash:「So I guess I'M Queen Lame - o .」
Gilda:「( nervously ) Come on , Dash ! You 're joshin ' me !」
Rainbow Dash:「They were n't all meant for you specifically . It was just dumb luck that you set them all off !」
Pinkie Pie:「I shoulda known ! That dribble cup had " Rainbow Dash " written all over it !」
Gilda:「( indignant ) No . Way . It was Pinkie Pie ! She set up this party to trip me up , to make a fool of me !」
Pinkie Pie:「Me ? ! I threw this party to improve your attitude ! I thought a good party might turn that frown upside - down !」

Rainbow Dash:「And you sure did n't need any help making a fool of yourself ! You know , this is not how I thought my OLD friends would treat my NEW friends ! If being cool is all you care about , maybe you should go find some new COOL friend someplace else .」
narration:Gilda growls
Gilda:「( stumbling over words ) Yeah ? ! Well ... you .... you ...」
narration:YOU are such a ... a FLIP - FLOP ! Cool one minute and lame the next . When YOU decide not to be lame anymore , gimme a call .
 door slams
Rainbow Dash:「Not . Cool .」
Spike:「Wow . Talk about a party pooper .」
narration:ponies chatter about Gilda
Rainbow Dash:「I 'm sorry , everypony , for bringing Gilda here .」
narration:I did n't know how rude she was . And Pinkie Pie , I 'm really sorry she ruined that awesome party you put on for her .
Pinkie Pie:「Hey , if you wanna hang out with party poopers , that 's your business .」
Rainbow Dash:「I 'd rather hang out with you .
 No hard feelings ?」
Pinkie Pie:「No hard feelings .」
narration:joy buzzers shock both
 ponies laugh
Twilight Sparkle:「Hey , Pinkie . Sorry I accused you of misjudging Gilda .」

narration:Looks like I 'm the one who misjudged you .
Pinkie Pie:「It 's okay , Twilight ! Even you ca n't be a super smart smarty smart - pants all the time ! Come on everypony , there 's still a whole lotta party to finish !」
narration:ponies cheer
Twilight Sparkle:「( voice - over ) " Dearest Princess Celestia ,」

Spike:「Come on Twilight , you can do it !」
Twilight Sparkle:「Okay , here goes .」
narration:poof
Spike:「Ha - HA ! You did it !」
narration:Growing magic . That 's number ! Twenty - five different types of tricks and counting .
 pleased
 And I think this is the best trick so far .
 suave
 Hello , Rarity . What 's that ? Aw , it 's nothin' , just my AWESOME moustache !
 chuckles
Twilight Sparkle:「Sorry , Romeo . As attractive and enticing as you look , it 's just for practice and it 's got ta go .」
Spike:「Wait ! ( poof , crestfallen ) Aw , rats ...」
narration:Twilight giggles
 theme song begins
 My Little Pony , My Little Pony , ah , ah , ah , ah ,
( My Little Pony ) Twilight:「I used to wonder what friendship could be ( My Little Pony ) Until you all shared its magic with me」
Rainbow Dash:「Big adventure」
Pinkie Pie:「Tons of fun」
Rarity:「A beautiful heart」
Applejack:「Faithful and strong」
Fluttershy:「Sharing kindness」
Twilight Sparkle:「It 's an easy feat」
