narrator:INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER
 20
 Bob hurries to catch up with Lyn. He follows him around a corner and skids to a halt. Lyn is facing him, standing on one leg, hands raised above his head in an odd martial arts stance. He emits a threatening croon. Bob raises his hands nervously.
BOB:「Whoa!」
Lyn Cassady:「You working for Hooper?」

BOB:「Hooper? No. I work for the Ann Arbor Daily Telegram.」
Lyn Cassady:「How do you know about Lacey?」
BOB:「I interviewed him a few years ago. He'd been appearing on this radio talk show. Lyn relaxes his martial arts stance, shakes his head ruefully.」
Lyn Cassady:「Little prick...what'd he tell you?」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 20
BOB:「And he said the Loch Ness Monster was the ghost of a dinosaur. Who's Bill Django?」
Lyn Cassady:「shaking his head in」
narrator:DISGUST) Did he show you his "Home Study Course"?
BOB:「Yes.」
Lyn Cassady:「walking off down the」
narrator:CORRIDOR) Yeah I bet he did.
BOB:「hurrying after him) Are you...? Do you mean you corroborate his, uh...? Because, see, I thought he was just an idiot?」
narrator:LYN CASSADY
 RUEFULLY) He is an idiot...or he was...he's dead now. He was a paranormal whore. Always trying to get into the spotlight, yak, yak yaking. We took an oath. We don't divulge...
BOB:「But you're saying there was a secret unit? Lyn stops, turns and stares at him.」
Lyn Cassady:「We...don't...divulge.」

narrator:INT. LYN'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER
 21
 Bob and Lyn are talking, passing a bottle of Scotch backwards and forwards between them. Both are drunk.
Lyn Cassady:「Okay. Let me ask you something. What color were the chairs in the hotel bar?」

Lyn Cassady:「You were in there for hours. What color were the chairs?」
BOB:「Um...brown?」
Lyn Cassady:「They were green. How many lights are there in this room? Bob starts to look around.
 A Super Soldier wouldn't need to look. He would just know.」
BOB:「A Super Soldier?」
Lyn Cassady:「A Jedi Warrior. He would know where all the lights were. He could walk through a room and tell you how many power outlets there were. People are walking around with their eyes closed. At Level One we were trained to instantly absorb all details.」
narrator:BOB
 BEAT) What's a Jedi Warrior?
Lyn Cassady:「You're looking at one.」
BOB:「You're a Jedi Warrior?」
Lyn Cassady:「That's correct.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2)
 21
Lyn Cassady:「Soldiers with Super Powers. We were the first generation of the New Earth Army.」
narrator:BOB
 BEAT) You've got super powers?
Lyn Cassady:「That's correct.」
BOB:「Hold on, let me...let me just... He takes out his NOTEBOOK, fumbling, trying to get into journalist mode.
 Okay, so, so you're saying you were a Psychic Spy, like Lacey?」
Lyn Cassady:「We prefer the term Remote Viewer.」
BOB:「How does that work?」
Lyn Cassady:「Different Jedi had different techniques. Mel Landau used to visualize packing all his cares and worries in a little suitcase, to clear his mind. Steve Cuttle used to read Bible verse...」
BOB:「What about you? Lyn thinks about it.」
Lyn Cassady:「Well, I find drinking helps. Also if I'm listening to classic rock music.」
BOB:「Yeah? (Beat) Like who?」
Lyn Cassady:「I like Boston. Boston usually works. Bob jots this down in the notebook.」

Lyn Cassady:「Invisibility.」
BOB:「Taken aback) Invisibility?」
Lyn Cassady:「Yup. That was Level Three.」
BOB:「Actual invisibility?」
Lyn Cassady:「Well...yeah, that was the goal. But after a while we adapted it to just finding a way of not being seen. When you understand the, the linkage between observation and reality, you learn to dance with invisibility. Bob tries to follow this.」
BOB:「Like camouflage?」
Lyn Cassady:「It's not like camouflage. We also practised Phasing. Crossing from particle to wave, from the physical realm to the plane of energy. Solid objects seem to pass right through you. It's starts with a breathing exercise... Lyn makes a weird shallow PANTING SOUND.
 Then you think black. That's the nothingness. Bob watches him solemnly as he continues his weird panting.」
BOB:「I don't...can I be honest, Lyn? I don't know what to make of this. I don't know what to say. This is amazing stuff. (Beat) How would you...I wanna...could I write a story about this? Lyn stops panting, takes a swig of whiskey, stares at the bottle, suddenly taciturn.」
Lyn Cassady:「Not going to happen.」

Lyn Cassady:「Not going to happen.」
BOB:「All I'm saying is we could talk some more tomorrow and...」
Lyn Cassady:「I'm shipping out tomorrow.」
BOB:「You're going home?」
Lyn Cassady:「Going to Iraq. There's this factory we might be partnering with in Al Qaim. Bob's face falls.」
BOB:「Oh. They sit in silence for a moment. Lyn passes Bob the whiskey. He takes a swig, his mind whirring...」
narrator:SUDDENLY) I could come.
 LYN CASSADY
 BEAT) What?
BOB:「I could come with you, maybe, and...」
Lyn Cassady:「Bob, I don't want to be a story, okay? I don't need the attention and...」

Lyn Cassady:「It's a war over there Bob. Okay? A war. I can't be looking out for you. Bob flushes with annoyance.」
BOB:「Well you know, you don't... I look after myself. Okay? I look after...And I've been in some pretty hairy situations before. I'm not, you know...I'm a journalist, Lyn. You understand? He slaps his notebook for emphasis.
 A journalist. I go where the story is.
 V.O.)I was an American. I was Resolute. I wanted adversity to reveal my character to the world. And to my wife. And to that one-armed cunt Dave. Lyn is staring at Bob's notebook. He takes it from Bob and examines Bob's DRAWINGS OF EYES.」
Lyn Cassady:「What's this?」

BOB:「V.O.)」
narrator:READING) The U.S Army doesn't really have any serious alternative than to be Wonderful! Bob looks at the DISCLAIMER at the bottom of the page.
 BOB(V.O.)
 READING) This does not represent the official position of the United States Army at this time. Bob looks up at Lyn who nods gravely.
Lyn Cassady:「You wanted to know who Bill Django was? (Beat) He's the man who wrote that book.」

narrator:BOB
 READING) The role of The New Earth Army is to RESOLVE CONFLICT world-wide. Jedis will parachute into war zones, utilizing sparkly eyes technique, carrying symbolic flowers and animals, playing indigenous music and words of peace... INSERT: An illustration of a SOLDIER CARRYING A LAMB and some LILIES - with what appears to be some kind of loudspeaker strapped to his shoulder.
BOB:「What's the sparkly eyes technique? Lyn raises his shades and twinkles his eyes at Bob for a moment.
 Okay.」
Lyn Cassady:「You see it?」
BOB:「I think so. (Beat) Lyn?」
Lyn Cassady:「Yeah?」
BOB:「Who is this Bill Django? Lyn draws on his cigarette thoughtfully.」
Lyn Cassady:「I don't know where to begin.」

Lyn Cassady:「Bill always said it started for him when he fell out of a helicopter in Vietnam.」

Lyn Cassady:「What?」
BOB:「The cone. Does it direct your psychic powers or something?」
Lyn Cassady:「No.」
BOB:「What does it do? Lyn takes some BURGERS out of a cooler box and puts them into the cone.」
Lyn Cassady:「It cooks supper. He examines the stove approvingly.
 Solar. Utilizing the power of the universe - no pollution, totally renewable. This is like New Earth Army technology. Bob picks up the Manual and starts to read. Lyn watches him.
 Pretty mind-blowing, isn't it? First time I read it, I was like...what the fuck?」
BOB:「Yes. (Beat) But... He stops.」
Lyn Cassady:「What?」
BOB:「Nothing.」
Lyn Cassady:「Go on - what?」

Lyn Cassady:「The New Earth Army was tasked with preventing conflict. We're a force of peace, not war. Bill realized if you want to change the world, you've got to start by changing the armies. He was the one that started the research into non- lethals.」
BOB:「Non-lethals? Lyn flicks away his cigarette.」
Lyn Cassady:「Check this out. He takes a yellow PLASTIC BLOB from his pocket with a flourish.
 The Predator.」
narrator:BOB
 LAUGHS) The Predator? (Beat) That's a plastic blob, Lyn. (Pointing at the blob) That's a... Before he can finish Lyn has slipped Bob's finger into a hole in the middle of the blob and twisted it.
BOB:「」
narrator:OH! OH FUCK! OH...FUCK!
Lyn Cassady:「You see? You're mine now. The Predator is completely biodegradable. It's friendly to the earth but it can hurt you in a hundred ways. He takes the blob off the finger and rubs it's serrated edge down Bob's temple.」
narrator:BOB
 OWWWWWW!

Lyn Cassady:「It has warrior functions.(Beat) And it looks a bit funny. This is New Earth Army technology. Lyn sticks the Predator in Bob's ear and hauls him to his feet. Bob yells with pain.」

BOB:「Stop it! Stop hurting me! Lyn stares at the blob fondly.」
Lyn Cassady:「I bought it on line. What's cool about it is that you could see this lying on the ground and you'd never know it had such lethality. Bob holds his ear and pants for breath. Lyn's face lights up.
 Eyeballs.」

narrator:INT. CAR - DESERT - LATER
 42
 Bob and Lyn sit in the car. Bob is reading the Manual, eating cold beans from a can. Bob suddenly notices Lyn has taken a small black case from his bag and is preparing an INJECTION.
Lyn Cassady:「Off Bob's look) ) I've got Crohn's. The steroids help.」

narrator:Lyn injects himself, packs everything back away in his back-pack. Bob sits, shivering. Lyn finishes, stares up at the stars thoughtfully.
Lyn Cassady:「Sometimes there's a need, Bob. Sometimes people are calling out for something, even if they don't know it themselves. And then a man like Bill appears out of nowhere, because he heard the call....」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - CONTINUOUS
 51
 Bob jumps out of the car, panicking and starts to run in a random direction.
BOB:「As he runs) Oh God. Oh God. He stops, staring at the immense empty landscape ahead of him.」
narrator:LYYYYN!
Lyn Cassady:「O.S.) What? Bob turns and sees Lyn in a YOGA pose on the roof of the car.」

BOB:「I didn't...I thought...What are you doing?」
Lyn Cassady:「Salute to the Sun. He finishes and jumps down.
 Okay. We're Oscar Mike. (Getting up) That's "On the Move" soldier.」

narrator:INSIDE THE CAR
 53 Bob is writing in his notebook as Lyn drives. He notices Lyn keeps looking up at the sky.
BOB:「What are you doing?」
Lyn Cassady:「Cloud bursting. Keeps me in shape. Bob stares up at the clouds.」
BOB:「Really? Which one?」
narrator:LYN CASSADY
 POINTING) That one. Bob tries to work out which cloud he means.
BOB:「That one?」
Lyn Cassady:「No. That one. The big one.」
BOB:「Isn't that one too far away? Lyn looks at Bob like he's crazy.」
Lyn Cassady:「They're all far away.」

narrator:He concentrates on the CLOUD again. Sure enough, it thins and fades until it has DISAPPEARED. Bob stares - not sure what to think.
Lyn Cassady:「And it's gone. Lyn, smiling up at the sky, doesn't notice that the car is veering off the road a little. BANG! The two men are slammed forward as the car hits something, Bob smacking his face off the dash.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT ROAD - DAY
 54
 We see the car has run straight into a large ROCK. This is pretty much the only vertical feature in the otherwise flat landscape. The two men stand staring at the wrecked front of the car. Bob is holding a handkerchief to his bloody nose. He looks at the car, stares around him at the desert stretching out.
BOB:「Jesus Lyn. You had like the whole desert to drive in... Lyn rubs his face ruefully.」
Lyn Cassady:「Yeah. I'm sorry about that Bob. Must have got a little bi- locational there, you know? But don't worry. Someone'll come along soon.」

narrator:From the next room we hear the Young Iraqis start to sing along to the track, laughing. Lyn listens.
Lyn Cassady:「I don't think they're Al Qaeda.」
BOB:「Oh what the hell do you know? You don't know! You don't know anything! And this is all your fault!」
Lyn Cassady:「Bob, there's something I have to tell you. When I said I was retired from the unit, that was a lie. I'm on a mission. DeWitts was just my cover. I've been reactivated. I couldn't tell you because this is a Black Op, but...I think you have a part to play. I think that's why you're with me. Bob collapses face down on the mattress.」
narrator:BOB
 MUFFLED) You're an idiot. You want to know why I'm with you? Because I got drunk. (Starting to cry a little) I got drunk and I just wanted to get into Iraq so I could prove to my wife I wasn't...just once that I...And now I'm going to die. She's right. I'm such a... He dissolves into misery. Lyn watches with sympathy.

Lyn Cassady:「Have you heard of Optimum Trajectory before? (No answer) Your life is like a river, Bob. If you're aiming for a goal that isn't your destiny, you will always be swimming against the current. Young Ghandi wants to be a stock-car racer? Not gonna happen. Little Anne Frank wants to be a High School teacher. Tough titty Anne. That's not your destiny. But you will go on to move the hearts and minds of millions. Find out what your destiny is and the river will carry you. Now sometimes events in life give an individual clues as to where their Destiny lies.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2)
 57
Lyn Cassady:「Like those doodles you just "happened" to draw? He unbuttons his shirt and reveals an EYE tattooed on his chest - very similar to the one Bob had drawn. Bob looks up.
 This is the Ajna chakra - the third eye - the symbol of the Jedi. When I saw you'd drawn it...well, the Universe gives me a sign like that, I don't ignore it. You're meant to be here with me, Bob. The Jedi inside you sensed that. Bob stares at the EYE.
 Now listen to me. I don't think these guys are FRL's or Mehdi Army... I think we're talking standard criminals here, okay? What they're gonna do is try and sell us on to another group. We can't let that happen.」
BOB:「How are we gonna stop them? There's three of them! And they've got guns!」
Lyn Cassady:「We're Jedi, Bob. The Jedi don't fight with guns. We fight with our minds.」
BOB:「What do you mean?」
Lyn Cassady:「Let's say we have no choice but to fight with these men. Then we use visual aesthetics to instill psychically in the enemy a disincentive to attack.」

narrator:BOB
 BEAT) What do you mean?
Lyn Cassady:「Okay, you lock eyes with one of them, you go into a monotone and you say "No, I'm not going to attack you." You totally relax your body and your voice. And then you rip out one of his eyeballs.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (3)
 57
Lyn Cassady:「Or you use a pen, stab him in the neck, create a fountain of blood, I mean really a fountain, get the blood to squirt on his buddies. That's a psychic disincentive, right there. Bob thinks about this, a little nauseated.」
BOB:「We haven't got a pen.」
narrator:LYN CASSADY
 SIGHS) You're missing the point. (Standing up) Here let me show you something. Stand up. Bob stands up reluctantly.
Lyn Cassady:「Choke me.」
BOB:「Oh...I don't want to Lyn.」
Lyn Cassady:「Choke me. What am I gonna do? (pointing at his throat) Just here. Choke. Choke.」
BOB:「I don't think I...there's sharp edges around here...」
Lyn Cassady:「C'mon...(making quotation marks with his fingers) "Attack me." Bob stares at him, a little annoyed by this.」
BOB:「What's with the quotation fingers? That's like implying I'm you know...only capable of ironic attacking or...」
Lyn Cassady:「Quit jawing, Bob, and choke me.」

narrator:BOB
 BEAT) Well, if I choose to choke you, what are you going to do?
Lyn Cassady:「I'm going to interrupt your thought pattern.」

narrator:Bob thinks about this then raises his hands to choke Lyn. Lyn THROWS him - sailing through the air. He crashes down into the floor behind Lyn.
Lyn Cassady:「See? I hardly moved. Physics wise there's not much going on. It's the psychic energy that's important. (Beat) You okay?」
BOB:「in pain) Sharp...edges...」
Lyn Cassady:「helping him up) You felt fear didn't you? Before hand? Bob massages his back, impressed despite himself.」
BOB:「Yes.」
Lyn Cassady:「Would you say that level of fear was abnormal for you? Bob thinks about this.」

Lyn Cassady:「That's okay. You learnt a lesson. "Whatever you fear most has no power - it is your fear that has power."」
narrator:BOB
 IMPRESSED) Huh.
Lyn Cassady:「Oprah.」
BOB:「Uhuh. (Beat) You really don't work for DeWitts?」
Lyn Cassady:「Just my cover.」
narrator:BOB
 BEAT) Gus Lacey said you ran a dance studio. That was just cover too, right?
Lyn Cassady:「No. I do run a dance school. I love dance.」
BOB:「Oh. Okay. (Beat) And you're really on a mission out here?」
Lyn Cassady:「In time, Bob.」
narrator:BOB
 BEAT) Were you just kidding me back there - about me having some Jedi in me?
Lyn Cassady:「We learn to recognize our own kind after a while. You ever dream about flying?」
BOB:「Yes.」
Lyn Cassady:「That's one of the signs.」

Lyn Cassady:「Don't you? Haven't you always really felt you were different? Bob considers this.」
BOB:「Yes. Yes I have.」
Lyn Cassady:「That's the way it is for us. We're the ones who don't fit in as kids.」
BOB:「Have you always had powers?」
Lyn Cassady:「Kind of. They used to call me the Jinx.」

narrator:INT. EX-MESS HALL - DAY
 62
 The Jedis are DANCING to some rock, encouraged by Bill.
BILL DJANGO:「Okay! Give it everything you've got! That's it! The Jedis start to dance more frenetically, eyes closed, jumping about the room, waving their arms... Bill notices Lyn, shuffling self-consciously from foot to foot.
 What's your name son?」
Lyn Cassady:「Lyn Cassady sir.」
BILL DJANGO:「Where you from?」
Lyn Cassady:「Opelousas, Louisiana, sir. Bill stares at Lyn, taking in his orphan air, his hunted look.」

narrator:INT. PSI EXPERIMENT ROOM - DAY - THE PAST
 82
 Scotty, Larry and Lyn sit focusing on a wall of SMALL WOODEN CUPBOARDS. Each cupboard has a letter and number printed on its door.
 BILL DJANGO
 A-9. The three men focus on the cupboard in question.
 SCOTTY It's...it's something cylindrical? I think it's a pencil?
BILL DJANGO:「Okay. Larry? Larry rolls his eyes up in his head, speaks in a high wavering voice with a bad cockney accent.」
LARRY HOOPER:「This is Larry's Spirit Guide, Maud. I'm looking into the cupboard now and I'm seeing...I'm seeing...a tin mug?」
BILL DJANGO:「Lyn? Lyn stares at his hands, focused. He looks up suddenly, puzzled.」
Lyn Cassady:「It's a man on a chair. Bill unlocks the little cupboard and takes a photograph of the Lincoln Memorial. There are murmurs of admiration from the watching Jedis.」

narrator:LYN CASSADY
 GENTLY) It's okay, Bob. We're not getting into that truck. The First Young Iraqi gestures more angrily at the Truck.
 YOUNG IRAQI Edkhol!
Lyn Cassady:「Don't move Bob.」
BOB:「scared, whispering) Are you going to use the Blob?」
Lyn Cassady:「Let's hope it doesn't come to that. One of the Insurgents stirs and says something softly in Arabic. The other laughs. Angrily the First Young Iraqi takes out a HANDGUN and levels it at Lyn.」
narrator:YOUNG IRAQI
 EDKHOL! Lyn raises one hand towards him.
Lyn Cassady:「You can put your weapon away. You're not interested in us. The Young Iraqi points the gun at Bob who starts to walk towards the truck.」
narrator:FIRMLY) Stay where you are Bob. Bob stops.
BOB:「Shit...shit...」
Lyn Cassady:「to the Iraqi,」

narrator:INT. DOJO - DAY
 92
 Ben leaps spastically in the air, spinning and shrieking, a knife held in one hand.
BOB:「V.O.) The approach was hailed by some knife aficionados as revolutionary but criticized by others who believed that the leaping and spinning might lead you to accidentally stab yourself. TRACKING ALONG BEN'S TRAINEE JEDIS - as they watch his display.
 V.O.) Lyn Cassady, however, became a firm convert to the style. We reach LYN who TURNS TO CAMERA.」
Lyn Cassady:「Ben, you're not forgotten. The knife you gave me lies next to my beret. God bless Ben Echmeyer.」

narrator:EXT. ROAD - MOMENTS LATER
 94
 The sun is rising as the PICK-UP TRUCK roars over the sand and swerves onto the road.
 INSIDE THE TRUCK Lyn drives. Bob is leaning out of the window, staring at the road behind them.
BOB:「pulling his head back in) They're not coming! We're okay! Oh God, we're gonna be okay! The Truck crests a hill and we see the IRAQI MAN running desperately down the road ahead of us, his hands tied.」
Lyn Cassady:「There he is. He puts his foot down and the truck roars after the running man.」

narrator:TRACKING SHOT - pulling the IRAQI MAN, running for all he's worth. Lyn leans out of the truck window as he drives up behind him.
Lyn Cassady:「(yelling over the」
narrator:ENGINE) Sir? You're okay! We're Americans. We're here to help you! Terrified the Man sprints faster. Lyn tries to pass him, but the Man veers at the same time and the truck CLIPS him, sending him flying.
 IN THE TRUCK
Lyn Cassady:「Oh crap!」

narrator:EXT. ROAD
 95
 Lyn runs over to where the MAN lies moaning on the road, his head bleeding.
Lyn Cassady:「Sir? Are you okay? (Beat) Bob, give me a hand here will you? Bob gets out and the two lift the Iraqi Man and begin to carry him back towards the truck. They stop listening to an approaching rumble.」

NIXON:「Right now, I'm in the Quality of Life business. Nixon nods, smiling, pleased with the line.
 (To Bob) We've got 25 million Iraqis out here who wanna be independent, wanna make something of their lives. But more than anything else they wanna buy stuff. Cell phones, digital cameras, leisure suits - you name it. If it sells in Boston, then we can damn well sell it in Baghdad! (To Mahmud) Am I right Muhammad? (To Bob) He knows what I'm talking about. We've got Halliburton, Parsons, Perini...just in the primes. We're gonna have Macdonalds, we're gonna have Starbucks...No corporate tax. It's a gold-rush. Oh, and by the way, fuck the French! (Laughing) Did you hear that shit? Chirac wants to bring French contractors in? Can you believe that? Hey, Phil? Raise one hand if you like the French.」
narrator:THE DRIVER (their double act) Raise both your hands if you are French! He raises both his hands.
 NIXON
 LAUGHING) Yeah, okay...watch the wheel Phil. (To Bob) Year Zero boys. Bob nods politely.
 THE BACK SEAT Lyn prepares an INJECTION for himself. He feels the Security Guard beside him watching. He notices the name of the company on the man's badge - Krom Security.
Lyn Cassady:「making conversation) What's Krom? The Security Guard continues to watch him through his mirrored shades.」

narrator:SECURITY MAN (Texan accent) God of War.
 LYN CASSADY
 INTERESTED) Really? Is that Norse?
 SECURITY MAN Conan the Barbarian. S'in the movie. Lyn injects himself.
Lyn Cassady:「Right. Lyn notices the Chilean Security Guard on his other side has a tattoo on his arm - "Viva Pinochet!"」

BOB:「(V.O.) And also accidentally set on fire by a US tank. Neighbors told him his wife had left, they weren't sure where she had gone. We reach Bob, Lyn and Mahmud eating at a low table. The windows behind them have been partially boarded up. Mahmud is sunk into a profound depression. Lyn looks tired, pale. They eat in awkward silence.」
Lyn Cassady:「What is this?」
MAHMUD DAASH:「Taameeyah.」
Lyn Cassady:「They're really good. Bob nods politely. Mahmud nods, sighs.」
BOB:「V.O.) I understood he was going
 through a lot, but considering we
 had saved him from kidnappers
 I still thought his welcome could
 have been a little warmer. Lyn clears his throat.」
Lyn Cassady:「I'm very sorry for running you over, sir. Mahmud shrugs.」

Lyn Cassady:「Not your fault sir. I mean we get kidnappers in America too, so...you know. There's always, uh, bad apples, right? The men eat in silence for a moment. Mahmud stares blankly at his plate, looking crumpled and lost. Bob watches him, faintly irritated. Lyn tries to think of something comforting to say.」
narrator:CAREFULLY) Akhir il ahzan. (May this be the last of your sorrows.) Mahmud looks at him, startled perhaps by the unexpected Arabic phrase.
Lyn Cassady:「Did I say it wrong? Mahmud shakes his head, moved but embarrassed.」

narrator:INT. MAHMUD'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
 105
 Lyn and Bob are sharing a bed. Bob looks out of the window and notices a CLOUD over the moon. He concentrates on it, trying to "bust" it. Nothing happens. He sighs, looks over to Lyn who is staring at the wall, lost once more in dark thoughts.
BOB:「Lyn?」
Lyn Cassady:「What?」
BOB:「What are you thinking?」
Lyn Cassady:「Just Mahmud. People try to build something of their lives, something lasting, something good... but there's always someone wants to smash it up...」

narrator:EXT. ROAD - DAY
 122
 Lyn and Bob are waiting on the quiet road which is studded with burnt out CARS. Mahmud drives an old Renault out of a warehouse and over to them. He gets out the car and hands Lyn the keys.
Lyn Cassady:「I really appreciate this sir.」

narrator:INSIDE THE CAR
 126 Lyn sits staring out at the emptiness, looking, perhaps for the first time, worried.
 BOB
 PEEVISH) Jesus Christ. We could'a bought a map if you'd said.
Lyn Cassady:「Bedouins have been navigating this desert for centuries without maps. You can use a wrist-watch in conjunction with the sun.」
BOB:「Well?」
Lyn Cassady:「What?」
narrator:BOB
 EXASPERATED) Well...use your watch.
Lyn Cassady:「I haven't got a watch.」
BOB:「Oh for the love of...Here... He gives Lyn his watch. Lyn looks at the watch and turns to stare at Bob.
 What?」
Lyn Cassady:「This is a digital watch, Bob.」
BOB:「So? That's...」
Lyn Cassady:「So you need a watch with hands for Christ's sake!」

narrator:CONTINUED:
 126
BOB:「You're the navigation expert here. You told me you could find the way.」
Lyn Cassady:「Will, if you'd just be quiet for a...」
BOB:「Turns out you haven't even got a watch! Now what the hell are we...」
Lyn Cassady:「Will you shut up? I don't need a watch. I'm using Level Two.」
narrator:BOB
 BEAT) What?
Lyn Cassady:「Level Two. Intuition. We were trained to make correct decisions. Somebody runs up to you and says "There's a fork in the road. Do we turn left or do we turn right? And you go...(snapping his fingers) "We go right!" Bob stares at him.」
BOB:「Just...instant?」
Lyn Cassady:「Instant. (Snapping his fingers) Just like that.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - LATER
 128
 BOB's P.O.V - We are stumbling forward towards a sand berm. We hear the sound of heavy breathing.
BOB:「O.S.)」
narrator:CROAKING) What...what happened? Lyn is staggering over the sand with Bob on his back. He is holding his backpack. Bob has a gash on his forehead which is bleeding. Under the blood his face is white. In the distance, behind them, we can see the column of black smoke rising.
 LYN CASSADY
 IED.
 BOB
 BEAT) What?
Lyn Cassady:「Improvised Explosive Device.」
BOB:「Oh Jesus.」
Lyn Cassady:「You're okay Bob. It's gonna be okay.」
BOB:「I can't believe this. Great fucking intuition Lyn. I can't...put me down. I can walk. Put me down. Lyn puts Bob down. Bob keels sideways onto the sand and lies there, wheezing.
 Oh, Jeez. Oh, Jeez.」
Lyn Cassady:「Alright, c'mon... He hauls Bob to his feet, puts his baseball cap on him and pulls him onto his back. Bob hangs there limply as Lyn sets off again.」

narrator:Lyn reaches up and gropes at Bob's face, removing his spectacles. Bob doesn't notice.
BOB:「Where are we going? We should stay with the car so the army can find us.」
Lyn Cassady:「Fedayeen will find us first.」
BOB:「Well, I disagree. I totally disagree.(Beat) The Federal what?」
Lyn Cassady:「Fedayeen Saddam. Paramilitary. Fellas who probably laid the IED. They could be on their way now. Hold this Bob. He passes Bob his backpack. They stagger on in silence for a moment, Bob jogging up and down on Lyn's back. Lyn snaps the legs off Bob's glasses, uses them as improvised divining rods to scan the sand ahead.」
BOB:「What are you doing?」
Lyn Cassady:「Could be IED's or mines around here. I'm checking for disturbances in the telluric current.」
BOB:「still dazed) Are they my glasses? Lyn doesn't answer, keeps on walking, struggling a little under the weight. Beat.
 Jesus, it's hot. I'm so hot. (Beat) Aren't you hot?」

Lyn Cassady:「not unkindly) Bob? It's pretty important you keep your mouth closed, okay? You can lose a lot of water through an open mouth. He staggers on with him.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - LATER
 129
 Bob trails after Lyn, his shirt tied around his head, breathing hard. Lyn is still scanning the sand.
BOB:「I can't breathe properly. I can't...Oh boy... He staggers, manages not to fall.」
Lyn Cassady:「You're okay.」
BOB:「I think I'm bleeding to death.」
Lyn Cassady:「You're not bleeding to death, Bob. It's shock, okay? It's just the shock. It'll pass. You're gonna be okay.」
BOB:「If we'd stayed at the road we would be safe now! Now we've got no water, no food or, or... (noticing Lyn's scanning) Will you forget about the fucking tantric currents?」
narrator:LYN CASSADY
 PATIENTLY) You're going to be okay.
BOB:「Stop saying that! I just got blown up! I'm in the middle of a desert!」
narrator:I'M NOT GONNA BE OKAY!
Lyn Cassady:「Bob, you're suffering from shock. If you start panicking now your heart's gonna stop. Bob stares after him incredulously.」

narrator:Lyn walks on without answering. Bob notices the sun is sinking.
BOB:「Wait a minute. That's west. Al Qaim's in that direction. We're going the wrong way.」
Lyn Cassady:「The mission isn't in Al Qaim. It's somewhere near Al Qaim.」
BOB:「Where?」
narrator:LYN CASSADY
 BEAT) I don't know.
BOB:「Is that...is that...is that a joke? We've come six hundred miles and you don't know where we're going?」
Lyn Cassady:「If the exact whereabouts of the Target was known it wouldn't take a Jedi to find them, would it? Bob watches Lyn stare around him, looking pale and drawn and, for the first time, afraid.」
BOB:「Who gave you the mission Lyn? (Beat) Lyn?」
Lyn Cassady:「Bill did.」
BOB:「What?」
Lyn Cassady:「Bill did. He appeared in my trailer two months ago. A psychic projection. I could hear him calling my name. Bob is so staggered by this for a moment he can't speak.」
narrator:BOB
 SOFTLY) Oh...Oh Jesus.
Lyn Cassady:「He needed me.」

BOB:「Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus Lyn. There's no mission? We're in the middle of the desert because you heard voices? There's no one here! There's no-one fucking here. Lyn starts to walk off but staggers and falls.
 Lyn! Bob rushes to him, kneels beside him. Lyn clutches his stomach, grimaces.
 Is it the Crohns?」
Lyn Cassady:「I don't have Crohns.」
BOB:「What's the matter with you?」
Lyn Cassady:「I'm dying. Bob stares at him, stunned.
 I've been murdered.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - NIGHT
 130
 Lyn sits staring up at the immense MOON above them. Bob sits watching, huddled against the cold, in the shelter of some rocks. Lyn gets up, stumbles back over to him and lies down, struggling for breath, white with pain.
Lyn Cassady:「It's gone Bob. I can't find him. I've lost my power. It's the curse.」
BOB:「What curse?」
Lyn Cassady:「With profound」

BOB:「Who destroyed it? Lyn stares at the stars above, remembering, grief stricken.」
Lyn Cassady:「I did.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - NIGHT - THE PRESENT
 137
 Bob listens transfixed.
Lyn Cassady:「This was the real deal, Bob. I was at the Gateway. Afterwards I realized I'd got injured.」
BOB:「Huh?」
Lyn Cassady:「Sympathetic injury I guess. I was bruised all over.」

Lyn Cassady:「I wish it was. Hooper told Holtz we should try the experiment again. Only this time they said...kill the goat.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - NIGHT - THE PRESENT
 140
 Lyn flushes with indignation at the memory.
Lyn Cassady:「There was no way! What had the goat ever done to me? It was totally against the way of the Jedi. I was just going to pretend to try so they would say, "okay - it can't be done" and forget about it. But then, as I sat there, I felt this, this pulse start inside of me and...I couldn't stop it. He turns to look at Bob, haunted.
 You know what I keep thinking?」

Lyn Cassady:「V.O.) Maybe deep down inside some dark part of me wanted to see if I could do it?」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - NIGHT - THE PRESENT
 144
 Bob stares at Lyn aghast.
BOB:「Collateral damage?」
Lyn Cassady:「eyes glistening) Collateral damage. (Beat) That was it. I'd used my powers for evil and it was like I brought a curse upon us all. Like that poem where the guy kills the seagull and they make him wear it round his neck. Every night I'd dream of that goat in its little bib, it's mouth opening and closing but nothing coming out... Bob shakes his head, stares out into the darkness.」

BOB:「The silence of the goats. Lyn flicks a suspicious glance at Bob, but is reassured by his solemn expression.」
Lyn Cassady:「I finished my tour and I quit. I walked out of the unit and I never went back.」

narrator:EXT. FORT BRAGG - DAY
 145
 Lyn, wearing civilian clothes and holding a suitcase, is walking off the base. He reaches the gates and turns for one last look at the place that has been his home.
BOB:「V.O.) But before he could leave Larry arranged one last parting gift. Lyn tuns back to the gates and finds Larry Hooper standing in front of him, looking WIRED.」
Lyn Cassady:「What do you wan...? Before he can finish Larry CHOPS his hand down in an odd blow onto Lyn's forehead. Lyn staggers back a little, holding his head.
 What the hell? Larry has already darted around him with a crazy laugh and is running madly back into the base. Lyn stares after him, stunned.
 V.O.) It was the Dim Mak.」

narrator:EXT. DESERT - NIGHT - THE PRESENT
 146
 Bob looks at Lyn, puzzled.
BOB:「The Dim Mak?」
Lyn Cassady:「The Dim Mak. The Quivering Palm. The Death Touch. It's like this legendary, martial arts move. It was forbidden in the New Earth Army. Larry had got it from a mail- order book.」

BOB:「What does the Death Touch do?」
Lyn Cassady:「Beat, patiently) It kills you Bob. With one touch.」
BOB:「Jesus.」
Lyn Cassady:「There's a story that Wong Wifu, great Chinese martial artist, had a fight with some guy and had him beat when the guy gave him this light tap, and Wong looked at him and the guy just nodded. That was it. He'd given him the death touch and Wong died.」
BOB:「Then and there?」
Lyn Cassady:「No. Eighteen years later. That's the weird thing with Dim Mak - you never know when it's going to take effect. He flops back, too tired to talk anymore. Bob watches him as he falls asleep.」

BOB:「I don't think we should... He stops following Lyn's gaze...」
narrator:INSIDE THE BUILDING The place is full of GOATS. Lyn and Bob stare at the animals. Slowly Lyn advances into the darkness, peering around him. In the shadows at the back of the building a figure STIRS. Lyn walks slowly forward until he can make out the man - old, bearded, worn and wasted by years of heavy drinking. It's BILL DJANGO. Lyn stares at him.
 LYN CASSADY
 CHOKED) Hello Bill. Bill smiles hesitantly.
BILL DJANGO:「Hello Lyn. Lyn is too choked with emotion for a moment to answer.」
Lyn Cassady:「This is Bob.」

LARRY HOOPER:「How'd you find us, Lyn?」
Lyn Cassady:「I remote viewed you. Larry smiles a little mockingly.」

narrator:CONTINUED: (2)
 154
LARRY HOOPER:「They're far more open minded then their predecessors, and they've out-sourced experimental research to my company. He indicates the PSIC name badge he's wearing.」
BOB:「Sick?"」
LARRY HOOPER:「It's pronounced psi-ike. Psychic Systems International Corp. Turns out certain people had heard about the New Earth Army and were interested in some of the work we were doing back then. They got in touch with me, I got in touch with Bill.」
Lyn Cassady:「To Bill) You're working for him? Bill frowns at the CDs, not seeming to hear.」

narrator:INT. BASE - CELL CORRIDOR - DAY
 156
 Lyn walks down the corridor, Bob following. At the end of the corridor is a single door with a SPY-HOLE. The loud music is coming from there. We can hear now that it is an annoying children's show song or heavy metal. We TRACK towards the door... Lyn hesitates then slides back the SPY-HOLE cover and peers in.
 LYN'S P.O.V - An IRAQI PRISONER sits huddled in the cell, illuminated in the flashes of a powerful STROBE LIGHT OVERHEAD.
 SONG (O.S.) (Lyrics from chosen song.) The prisoner looks terrified, and despite the whimsical music the whole scene is horribly sinister. Lyn steps away from the spy-hole.
 BOB
 ANXIOUSLY) What? What is it?
Lyn Cassady:「It's the Dark Side.」

narrator:INT. ARMY BASE - TENT - DAY
 157
 Lyn sits on his bed, as low as we've ever seen him. Bob watches him, concerned.
BOB:「What are you going to do? Lyn stares at the wall.
 Lyn? What are you going to do?」
Lyn Cassady:「It's too late...I'm dying, Bob.」

BOB:「Oh, you're not dying! I don't believe you can kill someone with a mail order Dim Sum. You can't...」
Lyn Cassady:「Dim Mak.」
BOB:「Whatever. I don't believe you can just...」
Lyn Cassady:「It's cancer.」
BOB:「just tap someone and ...it...(Beat) What?」
Lyn Cassady:「I mean, I know it was caused by the Dim Mak. But...it's...you know...it's cancer. That's what the doctors say. Different ways of looking at...different names for a reality or, or uh... He lapses into silence. Bob is stunned. Lyn lies down.
 I shouldn't have come Bob. Shouldn't have come. Lyn pulls the EAGLE FEATHER from the chain around his neck.
 ...Give this back to Bill...I don't deserve it. Bob stares at him.」

narrator:INT. ARMY BASE - TENT - NIGHT
 159
 Lyn lies sleeping. Larry sits at the foot of his bed, smoking a cigar. He watches Lyn for a moment, then COUGHS deliberately. Nothing. He repeats the cough - louder. Lyn wakes.
LARRY HOOPER:「Oh. Didn't mean to wake you. The two men stare at each other.
 Heard you weren't feeling well?」
narrator:LYN CASSADY
 BEAT) Just tired.
LARRY HOOPER:「How'd you find us?」
Lyn Cassady:「I told you. I remote viewed you.」
narrator:LARRY HOOPER
 SMILING) Scotty Mercer told you, didn't he?
Lyn Cassady:「No.」
LARRY HOOPER:「Yeah, he did. We told Scotty we were coming over here, asked him if he wanted some work.」
Lyn Cassady:「I haven't seen Scotty.」

narrator:They eat in silence for a moment. Lyn turns to look out of the window to where Larry Hooper stands outside in the early morning sun, smoking a cigar and drinking coffee. He turns and notices Lyn, raises his cup, smiles. Lyn looks troubled. Bob suddenly leans into Lyn.
 BOB
 SOFTLY) Don't eat the jello. Lyn turns to Bob puzzled.
 LYN CASSADY
 BEAT) What?
BOB:「Don't eat the jello. Lyn tries to puzzle this out but is distracted by Larry outside who seems to have noticed something in the sand at his feet - a small insect of some kind. He begins to watch it with strange fascination. After a moment he sinks to his knees in order to get a better look at it. One of the SOLDIERS notices and starts to laugh softly. His neighbor looks at him as if he's crazy then begins to laugh himself. Lyn looks around him, sensing the strange atmosphere creeping through the room.」
Lyn Cassady:「What's going on?」
BOB:「We put LSD in the jello. Lyn turns to stare at him.」
Lyn Cassady:「What?」

narrator:EXT. BASE - LATER
 173
 As the music continues Bob, Lyn and Bill appear leading a column of nervous IRAQI PRISONERS out of the building, towards the gates. Lyn and Bill are holding BABY GOATS in their ARMS. A tripping Bob is holding bunches of flowers - it's as close as they can get to the illustration from the New Earth Army Manual. Lyn holds up a hand to stop the procession. Larry stands in front of them, a GUN in his hand, his face blank. Lyn and Larry stare at each other. Then, unexpectedly, Larry starts to cry.
 LYN CASSADY
 SOFTLY) Give me the gun Larry. Larry starts to raise the gun to his mouth. Pauses. Scratches his head.
LARRY HOOPER:「Wow. I'm hungry. He wanders off.」
narrator:ARMY DJ (O.S.) (Over loudspeaker,
 LAUGHING) Hey! More music! (muffled) Get off, will ya? Over the loud-speakers we hear the opening of a period song.
Lyn Cassady:「Beat, relieved) Okay, let's go.」

narrator:FLATTENED SECTION OF FENCE
 174 Bob and Lyn stand at one side, Bill at the other, beckoning the prisoners through, hugging the prisoners as they pass through.
Lyn Cassady:「We're very sorry. Ma'assalama.」

narrator:One by one the Iraqis walk out through the broken fence, staring around them suspiciously, expecting a trap. Nothing happens, no one shoots them.
Lyn Cassady:「」

narrator:HELICOPTER
 176 Bill and Lyn sit in the chopper, Bill at the controls. Lyn is holding the flowers. Bob appears, hurrying over.
 BOB
 CALLING) Wait! Wait for me! Where are you going...what about the mission?
Lyn Cassady:「Over the sound of the engine) You are the mission Bob! You are the mission! Tell them what happened! The helicopter begins to rise. Bob stands swaying, staring up. Lyn smiles sadly through the window, raises his hand. The Helicopter RISES - HIGHER AND HIGHER. Bob waves goodbye.」
