narration:Renton lies on the floor.Swanney, Allison and Baby, Sick Boy and Spud are shooting up or preparing toshoot up. Sick Boy is talking to Allison as he taps up a vein on her arm.
Mak Renton:「I chose not to choose life: I chose something else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who need reasons when you've got heroin? Goldfinger's better than Dr. No. Both of them are a lot better than Diamonds are Forever a judgement reflected in its relative poor showing at the box office, in which field, of course, Thunderball was a notable success.」
narration:Spud is shooting up

Mak Renton:「People think it's all about misery and desperation and death and all that shite, which is not to be ignored, but what they forget - is the pleasure of it. Otherwise we wouldn't do it. After all, we're not fucking stupid. At least, we're not that fucking stupid. Take the best orgasm you ever had, multiply it by a thousand and you're still nowhere near it. When you're on junk you have only one worry: scoring. When you're off it you are suddenly obliged to worry about all sorts of other shite. Got no money: can't get pished. Got money: drinking too much. Can't get a bird: no chance of a ride. Got a bird: too much hassle. You have to worry about bills, about food, about some football team that never fucking winds, about human relationships and all the things that really don't matter when you've got a sincere and truthful junk habit. I would say, in those days, he was a muscular actor, in every sense, with all the presence of someone like Cooper or Lancaster, but combined with a sly wit to make him a formidable romantic lead, closer in that respect to Cary Grant.」

narration:Sick Boy and Spud lie drugged up. Allison and Baby wait while Swanney cooksup.Renton is standing up.
Mak Renton:「From time to time, even I have uttered the magic words.」
SWANNEY:「Are you serious?」
Mak Renton:「Yeah. No more. I'm finished with that shite.」
SWANNEY:「Well, it's up to you.」
Mak Renton:「I'm going to get it right this time. Going to get it set up and get off it for good.」
SWANNEY:「Sure, sure. I've heard it before.」
narration:They both look at Sick Boy
Mak Renton:「The Sick Boy method.」
SWANNEY:「Yeah, well, it surely worked for him.」
Mak Renton:「He's always been lacking in moral fibre.」
SWANNEY:「He knows a lot about Sean Connery.」
Mak Renton:「That's hardly a substitute.」
SWANNEY:「you'll need one more hit.」
Mak Renton:「No, I don't think so.」

narration:Renton holds two opium suppositories in the palm of his hand.
Mak Renton:「This was typical of Mikey Forrester. What the fuck are these? Under the normal run of things I would have had nothing to do with the cunt, but this was not the normal run of things.」
MIKEY:「Opium suppositories. Ideal for your purpose. Slow release, like. Bring you down gradually. Custom fucking designed for your needs.」
Mak Renton:「I want a fucking hit.」
narration:Renton sticks his hand down the back of his trousers and sticks thesuppositories into his rectum.
MIKEY:「That's all I've got: take it or leave it. Feel better now?」
narration:He smiles.EXT. STREET. DAY
Mak Renton:「For all the good they've done me I might as well have stuck them up my arse.」

Mak Renton:「You Only Live Twice?Nineteen-sixty-seven. Running time?One hundred and sixteen minutes. Director?Lewis Gilbert. Screenwriter?Eh - Ian Fleming? Fuck off! He never wrote any of them.」
narration:Sick Boy throws across a worn copy of a film guide.Renton cannot be bothered to pick it up.
Mak Renton:「OK, so who was it, then? You can look it up. How are you feeling since you came off the skag? For myself, I'm bored.Who wrote it? But you're looking better, it has to be said. Healthier. Radiant even.You don't know, do you? And I wondered if you'd care to go to the park tomorrow.The park? Tomorrow afternoon. Usual set-up.Who wrote it? Roald Dahl.」

narration:EXT. PARK. DAYTypical weather, neither good nor bad. The park is nondescript arid greenwith a few bushes. This is not Kew Gardens. Renton and Sick Boy appear,dressed as before but for the addition of cheap sunglasses.Renton is carrying a battered old cassette player and a carry-out in aplastic bag.Sick Boy is carrying a small, tatty suitcase from Oxfam.They scan the horizon and give each other the nod. They walk towards thebushes.EXT. PARK. DAYSeen through the telescopic sight of an air rifle that wanders over variouspotential targets (children, pensioners, couples, gardeners, etc.).
Mak Renton:「The down side of coming off junk was that I knew I would need to mix with my friends again in a state of full consciousness. It was awful: they reminded me so much of myself I could hardly bear to look at them. Take Sick Boy, for instance, he came off junk at the same time as me, not because he wanted too, you understand, but just to annoy me, just to show me how easily he could do it, thereby downgrading my own struggle. Sneaky fucker, don't you think? And when all I wanted to do was lie along and feel sorry for myself, he insisted on telling me once again about his unifying theory of life. It's certainly a phenomenon in all walks of life.What do you mean? Well, at one time, you've got it, and then you lose it, and it's gone for ever. All walks of life: George Best, for example, had it and lost it, or David Bowie, or Lou Reed -Some of his solo stuff's not bad. No, it's not bad, but it's not great either, is it? And in your heart you kind of know that although it sounds all right, it's actually just shite.So who else? Charlie Nicholas, David Niven, Malcolm McLaren, Elvis Presley. -」

narration:EXT. PARK. DAYSick Boy rests the gun down.
Mak Renton:「OK, OK, so what's the point you're trying to make? All I'm trying to do is help you understand that The Name of the Rose is merely a blip on an otherwise uninterrupted downward trajectory.What about The Untouchables? I don't rate that at all.Despite the Academy award? That means fuck all. The sympathy vote.」
narration:Right. So we all get old and then we can't hack it any more. Is that it?
Mak Renton:「Yeah.That's your theory? Yeah, Beautifully fucking illustrated.」
narration:EXT. PARK. DAY Through the sight again. This time a Skinhead and hismuscle-bound dog are in view.Sick Boy and Renton talk like Sean Connery.
Mak Renton:「Give me the gun. Do you see the beast? Have you got it in you sights?」
narration:The gun fires and the dog yelps, jumps up and bites its owner (theSkinhead).EXT. PARK. DAYRenton loads up again.
Mak Renton:「Clear enough, Moneypenny. This should present no significant problem. For a vegetarian, Rents, you're a fucking evil shot.」

narration:Two milkshakes clink together.Renton and Spud and seated at a booth, dressed in their own fashion for jobinterviews.
Mak Renton:「Good luck, Spud.」
SPUD:「Cheers.」
Mak Renton:「Now remember --」
SPUD:「Yeah.」
Mak Renton:「If they think you're not trying, you're in trouble. First hint of that, they'll be on to the DSS, 'This cunt's no trying' and your Giro is fucking finished, right?」
SPUD:「Right.」
Mak Renton:「But try too hard --」
SPUD:「And you might get the fucking job.」
Mak Renton:「Exactly.」
SPUD:「Nightmare.」
Mak Renton:「It's a tightrope, Spud, a fucking tightrope.」
SPUD:「My problem is that I tend to clam up. I go dumb and I can't answer any questions at all. Nerves on the big occasion, like a footballer.」
narration:Renton unfolds silver foil to reveal some amphetamine. Spud dips in a fingerand takes a dab. He nods in appreciation as he tastes it. Renton leaves thepacket in Spud's hand.

Mak Renton:「Try this.」

narration:A Woman and Two Men (1 and 2) are interviewing Renton. His job applicationform is on the desk in front of them.
SPUD:「Well, Mr. Renton, I see that you attended the Royal Edinburgh College.」
Mak Renton:「Indeed, yes, those halcyon days.」
MAN 1:「One of Edinburgh's finest schools.」
Mak Renton:「Oh, yes, indeed. I look back on my time there with great fondness and affection. The debating society, the first eleven, the soft know of willow on leather --」
MAN 1:「I'm an old boy myself, you know?」
Mak Renton:「Oh, really?」
MAN 1:「Do you recall the school motto?」
Mak Renton:「Of course, the motto, the motto --」
MAN 1:「Strive, hope, believe and conquer.」
narration:Renton looks pious under scrutiny.
Mak Renton:「Exactly. Those very words have been my guiding light in what is, after all, a dark and often hostile world.」
MAN 2:「Mr. Renton --」
Mak Renton:「Yes.」

narration:The same office. The same team are interviewing Spud.
Mak Renton:「No, actually I went to Craignewton but I was worried that you wouldn't have heard of it so I put the Royal Edinburgh College instead, because they're both schools, right, and we're all in this together, and I wanted to put across the general idea rather than the details, yeah? People get all hung up on details, but what's the point? Like which school? Does it matter? Why? When? Where? Or how many O grades did I get? Could be six, could be one, but that's not important. What's important is that I am, right? That I am.」

narration:Renton and Spud meet up after the interviews.
Mak Renton:「A little too well, if anything, a little too well, that's my only fear, compadre.Another dab?」

narration:Tommy and Spud seated as before. Their words are subtitled.As they are speaking Gail and Lizzy return and sit down.
LIZZY:「Useless motherfucker, that's what she called me. I told her, I'm sorry, but theses things happen. Let's put it behind us.」
SPUD:「That's fair enough.」
TOMMY:「Yes, but then she finds out I've bought a ticket for Iggy Pop the same night.」
SPUD:「Went ballistic?」
TOMMY:「Big time. Absolutely fucking radge. 'It's me or Iggy Pop, time to decide.'」
SPUD:「So what's it going to be?」
narration:Standing nearby but apart from them is Renton.Renton notes Spud and Tommy with their partners, and across the other sideSick Boy and Begbie are engaged in flirtatious conversation with Two Women.
TOMMY:「Well, I've paid for the ticket. What are you two talking about? Football. What were you talking about? Shopping」
narration:Begbie and Sick Boy with the Two Women.Renton standing among a group of lone nerds.Renton wades on to the dance floor, looking at countless women, all whomeither turn away or are spoken for.
Mak Renton:「The situation was becoming serious. Young Renton noticed the haste with which the successful, in the sexual sphere as in all others, egregated themselves from the failures.」

narration:Renton notices one girl (Diane) walking on her own towards the door.A Man carrying two drinks catches up with her and walks backwards, talkingto her.She says nothing. He blocks her way.She takes one drink and downs it, then the other, handing him back the emptyglasses. She steps past him and walks on towards the door.EXT. STREET. NIGHTThe Girl walks away from the club, scanning the street for a taxi, and hailone which stops just as Renton calls out.
Mak Renton:「Heroin had robbed Renton of his sex drive, but now it returned with a vengeance. And as the impotence of those days faded into memory, grim desperation took hold in his sex-crazed mind. His post-junk libido, fuelled by alcohol and amphetamine, taunted him remorselessly with his own unsatisfied desire dot. And with that, Mark Renton had fallen in love.Excuse me, I don't mean to harass you, but I was very impressed by the capable and stylish manner in which you dealt with that situation. I thought to myself: she's special.」
DIANE:「Thanks.」
Mak Renton:「What's your name?」
DIANE:「Diane.」
Mak Renton:「Where are you going, Diane?」
DIANE:「I'm going home.」

Mak Renton:「Where's that?」
DIANE:「It's where I live.」
Mak Renton:「Great.」
DIANE:「What?」
narration:Diane halts abruptly as a taxi pulls up.
Mak Renton:「I'll come back if you like, but I'm not promising anything.」
DIANE:「Do you find that this approach usually works, or, let me guess, you've never tried it before. In fact, you don't normally approach girls, am I right? The truth is that you're a quite, sensitive type but if I'm prepared to take a chance I might just get to know the inner you: witty, adventurous, passionate, loving, loyal, a little bit crazy, a little bit bad, but, hey, don't us girls just love that?」
Mak Renton:「Eh-」

narration:In a darkened suburban hallway, the door opens and two figures enter.
Mak Renton:「Diane.」
DIANE:「Ssshh!」
Mak Renton:「Sorry.」

narration:Renton and Diane climax together.Diane immediately climbs off and wraps herself in a robe.
TOMMY:「Christ, I haven't felt that good since Archie Gemmill scored against Holland in 1978.」
DIANE:「Right. You can't sleep here.」
Mak Renton:「What?」
DIANE:「Out.」
Mak Renton:「Come on.」
DIANE:「No argument. You can sleep on the sofa in the living room, or go home. It's up to you.」
Mak Renton:「Jesus.」

narration:The door swings open. A Man and a Woman, about Renton's age, sit at thekitchen table. They look up to see Renton in the doorway.
LIZZY:「Good Morning.」
narration:Renton walks to the table and sits down.
WOMAN:「Come in and sit down. You must be Mark.」
Mak Renton:「Yes, that's me.」
WOMAN:「You're a friend of Diane's?」
Mak Renton:「More of a friend of a friend, really. Right.」
narration:The couple exchange a look and laugh.
Mak Renton:「Are you her flatmates?」

narration:EXT. STREET. DAYRenton paces briskly down the street, followed by Diane.I don't see why not.
MOTHER:「Because it's illegal.」
DIANE:「Holding hands?」
Mak Renton:「No, not holding hands.」
DIANE:「In that case you can do it. You were quite happy to do a lot more last night.」
narration:They stop at the school gates.
Mak Renton:「And that's what's illegal. Do you know what they do to people like me inside? They'd cut my balls off and flush them down the fucking toilet.」
DIANE:「Calm down. You're not going to jail.」
Mak Renton:「Easy for you to say.」
DIANE:「Can I see you again?」
narration:Renton walks away.
Mak Renton:「Certainly not.」

narration:A man at the bar is now wearing the red anorak.Begbie divides up the money among Sick Boy, Tommy, Spud, and Renton.Renton takes his share.
Mak Renton:「And remember, Rents: no skag.Aye, OK, Fr.」

narration:Renton lies as before. Around the room are Swanney, Allison, Tommy, Spud andSick Boy.Allison begins screaming and wailing.Slowly, the others rouse themselves to varying degrees.Allison points toward the bundle of dirty blankets in which her baby iswrapped. Sick Boy follows her directions.
Mak Renton:「I think Allison had been screaming all day, but it hadn't really registered before. She might have been screaming for a week for all I knew. It's been days since I've heard anyone speak, though surely someone must have said something in all that time, surely to fuck someone must have. What's wrong, Allison?」
narration:Calm down, calm down. It's going to be all right, everything's going to bejust fine.Sick Boy stands over the bundle. The baby is dead.Oh, fuck. Sick Boy reaches out to Allison.
SPUD:「Nothing could have been further from the truth. In point of fact, nothing at all was going to be just fine. On the contrary, everything was going to be bad. Bad? I mean worse than it already was.」
narration:Say something, Mark, say something --

Mak Renton:「It wasn't my baby. She wasn't my baby. Baby Dawn. She wasn't mine. Spud's? Swanney's? Sick Boy's? I don't know. Maybe Allison knew. Maybe not. I wished I could think of something to say, something sympathetic, something human.」
narration:I'm cooking' up. There is a silence.Renton begins scrambling around through the works.
Mak Renton:「Cook one for me, Renton. I need a hit.」
narration:EXT. STREET. DAYRenton, Spud and Sick Boy cross the road to approach the shop.
Mak Renton:「And so she did, I could understand that. To take the pain away. So I cooked up and she got a hit, but only after me. That went without saying.」

narration:Renton, Spud and Sick Boy are stuffing their pockets, as seen before.Renton's theft is interrupted by Diane's voice.Diane is standing just beside him.Renton is speechless, but a few stolen items fall from inside his jacketdown to the floor.Diane looks down.Spud and Sick Boy start to snigger.One of the Store Detectives become aware of the group. He starts walkingtowards them.
Mak Renton:「Hello there, Mark. What are you doing? You didn't tell me you were a thief.」

narration:The pub is crowded. Around Renton are his mother, Father, Begbie, Sick Boyand Gav.There is a round to nodding and 'poor Spud'ing. Everyone begins to talk atonce.
Mak Renton:「It was fucking obvious that that cunt was going to fuck some cunt.」
FATHER:「I hope you've learned your lesson, son.」
MOTHER:「Oh, my son, I thought I was going to lose you there. You're nothing but trouble to me, but I still love you.」
BEGBIE:「Clean up your act, sunshine. Cut that shite out for ever.」
MOTHER:「You listen to Francis, Mark, he's talking sense.」
narration:Fucking right I am. See, inside, you wouldn't last two fucking days.There's better things that the needle, Rents. Choose life.He winks.I remember when you were a baby, even when you would never do what you weretold.They laugh, then fall silent.Renton turns around. Behind him stands Spud's mother.
BEGBIE:「But he pulled it off, clever bastard, and he got a result.」

narration:Mrs Murphy, I'm sorry about Spud. It's wasn't fair, him going down and notme --Tears in her eyes, Mrs Murphy turns and walks away.Renton watches her go. Behind him Begbie shouts.Begbie turns back to Renton.He moves towards the bar.Renton slips away.Renton walks through the bar towards the toilets, then out of a back door.EXT. YARD. DAYRenton emerges into a narrow yard surrounded by a high wall. He looksaround. The steel back gate is locked.
Mak Renton:「It's no our fault. Your boy went down because he was fucking smack-head and if that's not your fault, I don't know what is. Right. I'll get the drinks in.」

narration:Swanney is cooking up. Renton lands on the floor behind him like a gymnast.
Mak Renton:「What's on the menu this evening?」
SWANNEY:「Your favourite dish.」
Mak Renton:「Excellent.」
SWANNEY:「Your usual table, sir?」
narration:Renton sits on his usual cushion on the floor.
Mak Renton:「Why, thank you.」
SWANNEY:「And would sir care to settle his bill in advance?」
Mak Renton:「Stick it on my tab.」
SWANNEY:「Regret to inform, sir, that your credit limit was reached and breached a long time ago.」
narration:He produces twenty pounds.
Mak Renton:「In that case --」
narration:He swipes the notes underneath a UV forgery checker.Renton begins his search for a vein.
SWANNEY:「Oh, hard currency, why, sir, that'll do nicely. Can't be too careful when we're dealing with your type, can we? Would sir care for a starter? Some garlic bread perhaps?」
Mak Renton:「No, thank you. I'll proceed directly to the intravenous injection of hard drugs, please.」

narration:Renton lies on the bed.The door opens. Renton's Mother walks in with a bowl of soup and a piece ofbread. Father watches from the doorway.
SWANNEY:「I don't feel the sickness yet, but it's in the post, that's for sure. I'm in the junky limbo at the moment, too ill to sleep, too tired to stay awake, but the sickness is on its way. Sweat, chills, nausea, pain and craving. Need like nothing else I have ever known will soon take hold of me. It's on the way.」
MOTHER:「We'll help you, son. You'll stay with us until you get better. We'll beat this together.」
Mak Renton:「Maybe I could go back to the clinic.」
MOTHER:「No. No clinics, no methadone. That made you worse, you said so yourself. You lied to us, son, your own mother and father.」
Mak Renton:「At least get us some Tempazepam.」
MOTHER:「No, you're worse coming off that than you are with heroin. Nothing at all.」
FATHER:「It's a clean break this time.」
MOTHER:「You're staying where we can keep an eye on you.」

narration:Mother retreats past Father, who closes the door. The bolts go home again.Renton lies back and closes his eyes. His forehead is damp with sweat. Hebegins to shake. He tosses and turns, becoming wrapped up in a swathe ofblankets. As he unravels them, he is astonished to find a fully clothedBegbie in the bed with him.
Mak Renton:「I do appreciate what you're trying to do, I really do, but I need just one score, to ease myself off it. Just one. Just one.」

narration:It is poorly furnished. Tommy is seated. Renton has the football, which hekicks against the wall and catches, then drops and kicks again, and so on.The ball is slightly flat.
DOCTOR:「Are you getting out much?」
TOMMY:「No.」
Mak Renton:「Following the game at all?」
TOMMY:「No.」
narration:Renton drops the ball. It rolls to a halt in the corner. He sits down.
Mak Renton:「No. Me Neither.」
TOMMY:「You take the test?」
Mak Renton:「Aye.」
TOMMY:「Clear?」
Mak Renton:「Aye.」
TOMMY:「That's nice.」
Mak Renton:「I'm sorry, Tommy.」
TOMMY:「Have you got any gear on you?」
Mak Renton:「No, I'm clean.」

narration:Sheets cover the lower half of Swanney in bed. They are thrown back toreveal the stump of an above-knee amputation.Renton sits down and takes it in silence.
Mak Renton:「Surprise! Pa-pah! Hit the artery by mistake. Common enough error, or so the quack tells us, as though that's going to make my leg grown back. Still, it could have been worse, it could have been my fucking dick. And I tell you what, in this place you get looked after: clean sheets, regular meals and all the morphine you can eat.Great.」
SWANNEY:「And see when I get out of here. I've got plans. Going to get myself straightened out and head off to Thailand, where women really know how to treat a guy. See, out there you can live like a king if you've got white skin and a few crisp tenners in your pocket. No fucking problem.」
Mak Renton:「Sure.」
SWANNEY:「The strategy is this: get clean, get mobile, get into dealing, and this time next year I'll be watching the rising sun with a posse of oriental buttocks parked on my coupon.」
Mak Renton:「Sounds great, Swanney.」
SWANNEY:「Yeah.」

Mak Renton:「You'll have to send us a postcard.」
narration:Sure will, pal, sure will.EXT. PARK. DAYRenton and Sick Boy are seated in their firing patch, sitting on plasticbags with beer, vodka, hash and the cassette player. The airgun is presentas before, but they are not making any use of it.Eughh. Sounds horrible.It wasn't that bad.Did he -- you know?What?You know.No, he didn't make me touch it.Oh no, don't even mention it.He made me lick it.God, you're sick.
SWANNEY:「And I got a stitch stuck between my teeth, jerked my head back and the whole fucking stump fell off. Cut it out.」
Mak Renton:「When are you going to visit him? Don't know. Maybe Thursday.」
narration:Sick Boy is silent. He stiffens as he avoids Renton's gaze. They shiftfractionally apart. RENTON tuts.

Mak Renton:「You're a real mate. And what about Tommy? Have you been to see him yet? Fuck you. OK, so Tommy's got the virus. Bad news, big deal. The gig goes on, or hadn't you noticed? Swanney fucks his leg up. Well, tough shit, but it could have been worse.You're all hear. I know a couple of addicts. Stupid wee lassies. I feed them what they need. A little bit of skag to keep them happy while the punters line up at a fiver a skull. It's easy money for me. Not exactly a fortune, but I'm thinking, 'I should be coining it here.' Less whores, more skag. Swanney's right. Get clean, get into dealing, that's where the future lies. Set up some contacts, get a good load of skag, punt it, profit. What do you think?」

narration:Renton sits alone on the bed, making a joint and reading a book. There is aknock at the door. Renton answers the door.
Mak Renton:「What do you want?」
DIANE:「Are you clean?」
Mak Renton:「Yes.」
DIANE:「Is that a promise, then?」
Mak Renton:「Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.」
DIANE:「Calm down, I'm just asking. Is that hash I can smell?」
Mak Renton:「No.」
DIANE:「I wouldn't mind a bit, if it is.」
Mak Renton:「Well, it isn't.」
DIANE:「Smells like it.」
Mak Renton:「You're too young.」

narration:Renton and Diane are lying in the bed. Diane, wearing one of Renton'sT-shirts, is rolling a mega-joint, quite unaware of the scrutiny of Renton.
DIANE:「You're not getting any younger, Mark. The world is changing, music is changing, even drugs are changing. You can't stay in here all day dreaming about heroin and Ziggy Pop.」
Mak Renton:「It's Iggy Pop.」
DIANE:「Whatever. I mean, the guy's dead anyway.」
Mak Renton:「Iggy Pop is not dead. He toured last year. Tommy went to see him.」

narration:The montage ends on one street, then draws back to reveal the whole map ofLondon pinned to a wall. A Man holding a telephone walks in front of themape and belches loudly. Revealing more, he is in a scruffy, cramped officewith half a dozen occupied desks and twice as many telephones. Seated at theone nearest to the belching Man is Renton. He is wearing a shirt and tienow. He turns in response to the belch.Renton takes the telephone and reaches for a piece of paper from which hereads.
Mak Renton:「Can you take this call?」
narration:Renton checks his watch.EXT. THE AI IN NORTH LONDON. DAYRenton stands waiting beside this busy London road, outside some veryunfortunate housing, as the traffic streams past.
Mak Renton:「Hello, yes, certainly. It's a beautifully converted Victorian town house. Ideally located in a quiet road near to local shops and transport.」

narration:Renton turns the page.There is a buzz at the door. Renton re-examines the letter. There is anotherbuzz.
Mak Renton:「as he is wanted by the police in connection with an armed robbery in a jeweller's in Corstorphine. Take care. Yours with love, Diane.」

narration:Renton sits on the bed. Begbie stands over him, pointing a gun at his head.He pulls the trigger. It clicks harmlessly.He 'fires' the gun a few more times at his own head, then chucks it to thefloor.He digs a few rings out of his pocket and throws them to Renton.
Mak Renton:「Armed robbery? With a replica? How can it be armed robbery? It's a fucking scandal. And the haul. Look. Solid silver, my arse. I took it to a fence -- it's trash, pure trash. There's young couples investing all their hopes in that stuff, and what are they getting?It's a scandal, Franco.」

narration:Renton closes his door. He is about to walk away when he heard Begbieshouting.Renton opens the door. Begbie is holding out an empty packet of cigarettes.
BEGBIE:「Rents, Rents, come fucking back here. Look.」
Mak Renton:「What?」

narration:Where the first empty packet of cigarettes fell to the floor there is now alarge heap of empty packets: the product of weeks at sixty a day. Anotherone lands on the pile. Begbie, still in his underwear, still can in hand,sits watchig the racing as before. Behind his, cigarettes and alcohol arestacked up like a miniature duty-free warehouse. Renton sits behind him,reading a book.
Mak Renton:「Hey, I'm wanting a bet put on.Can you not go yourself.」

narration:Begbie sits on the bed. Renton is sitting on the floor watching.
Mak Renton:「I'm no a fucking buftie and that's the end of it.」
narration:Begbie leaps off the bed, grabs Renton and head-butts him, then holds him bythe lapel.
Mak Renton:「Let's face it, it could have been wonderful.」

narration:Renton (still dressed for work), Begbie and Sick Boy sit in a line on thebed with fish suppers laid out on their laps, but Renton's is untouched.
BEGBIE:「Good chips.」
Mak Renton:「I can't believe you did that. I got a good price for it. Rents, I need the money.」
narration:He takes Renton's fish supper and adds it to his own.
Mak Renton:「It was my fucking television. Well, Christ, if I'd known you were going to get so humpty about it, I wouldn't have bothered. Are you going to eat that? Have you got a passport?Why? Well, this guy I've met runs a hotel. Brother. Loads of contacts. Does a nice little sideline in punting British passports to foreigners. Get you a good price.」

narration:A kitten sits on the floor.
Mak Renton:「Tommy knew he had the virus, like, but never knew he'd gon full-blown.What was it, pneumonia or cancer? No, toxoplasmosis. Sort of like a stroke.」

narration:A service is in progress. Those present include Renton and Gav, who areengaged in hushed conversation, Begbie, Spud, Sick Boy, and Lizzy.He indicated Lizzy. Lizzy wouldn't let him near the house. So he brought apresent for her, brought her a kitten.
Mak Renton:「He wanted to see Lizzy again.I bet Lizzy told him where to put it. Exactly. I'm not wanting a cat, she says. Get to fuck, right. So there's Tommy stuck with this kitten. You can imagine what happened. The thing was neglected, pissing and shitting all over the place. Tommy was lying around fucked out of his eyeballs on smack or downers. He didn't know you could get toxoplasmosis from cat shit.」

narration:Spud, Begbie, and Renton are seated. Sick Boy is handing around bottles ofbeer before he too sits down. They are all wearing their funeral garb.Renton raises his bottle.They all drink.
Mak Renton:「Tommy. Did you tell him?」
BEGBIE:「No. On you go.」
Mak Renton:「What? There's a mate of swanney's. Mikey Forrester -- you know the guy. He's come into some gear. A lot of gear.How much? About four kilos. So he tells me. Got drunk in a pub down by the docks last week, where he met two Russian sailors. They're fucking carrying the stuff. For sale there and then, like. So he wakes up the next morning, realizes what he's done and get very fucking nervous. Wants rid of this. {---------- He's looking for Swanney to punt it, but Swanney's nowhere to be seen since he lost his leg. ----------}So? So he met me and I offered to take it off his hands at a very reasonable price, with the intention of punting it on myself to a guy I know in London.So we've just come from Tommy's funeral and you're telling me about a skag deal?」
narration:There is silence.
BEGBIE:「Yeah.」

Mak Renton:「What was your price? Four Grand.But you don't have the money? We're two thousand short.That's tough. Come on, Mark, every cunt knows you've been saving up down in London.Sorry, boys, I don't have two thousand pounds.」
BEGBIE:「Yes, you fucking do. I've seen your statement.」
Mak Renton:「Jesus.」
BEGBIE:「Two thousand, one hundred and thirty-three pounds.」
Mak Renton:「Four kilos. That's what -- Ten years' worth? Russian sailors? Mikey Forrester? What the fuck are you on these days? You've been to jail, Spud, so what's the deal -- like it so much you want to go back again?」

narration:EXT. STREET. DAYRenton is visible first, apparently talking to himself, then Diane.
BEGBIE:「It's so simple. We buy it at four grand, we punt it at twenty to this guy that Sick Boy knows, and he punts it at sixty. Everyone's happy, everyone's in profit. I put up two. I come away with six.」
DIANE:「Unless you get caught.」
Mak Renton:「So long as everyone keeps their mouths shut, we'll not be getting caught.」
DIANE:「So why have you told me about it?」
Mak Renton:「Well, you're not going to tell anyone, are you, and besides, I thought we could meet up afterwards, maybe go somewhere together.」
DIANE:「I've got a boyfriend, Mark.」
Mak Renton:「What? Steady like?」
DIANE:「That's right: 'going steady' for four weeks now.」
Mak Renton:「And what age are you? Thirteen? Fourteen?」
DIANE:「Sixteen next month.」
Mak Renton:「Happy birthday.」
narration:Renton thinks it over.
DIANE:「What do you think -- I should be carrying a torch for you?」

Mak Renton:「So, what's he like?」

narration:Begbie sits grimly. The others are relaxed.
Mak Renton:「This was his nightmare. The dodgiest scam in a lifetime of dodgie scams being perpetrated with three of the most useless and unreliable fuck-ups in town. I knew what was going on in his mind: any trouble in London and he would dump us immediately, one way or another. He had to. If he got caught with a bagful of skag, on top of that armed robbery shit, he was going down for fifteen to twenty. Begbie was hard, but not so hard that he didn't shite it off twenty years in Saughton.」

narration:The pub is crowded with afternoon drinkers. Renton, Spud, Sick Boy andBegbie sit drinking. Begbie is still keeping a firm hand on the sports bag,which now holds the money.
Mak Renton:「So what are you planning with your share, Spud?Buy yourself that island in the sun?」
BEGBIE:「For four fucking grand? One plam tree, a couple of rocks, and a sewage outflow.」
SPUD:「I don't know, maybe I'll buy something for my ma, and then buy some good speed, no bicarb like, then get a girl, take her out like, and treat her -- properly.」
BEGBIE:「Shag her senseless.」
SPUD:「No, I don't mean like that -- I mean something nice, like, that's all --」
BEGBIE:「You daft cunt. If you're going to waste it like that, you might as well leave it all to me. Now get the drinks in. I got a round already.」
SPUD:「I got the last one.」
narration:Begbie stands up.
Mak Renton:「It's your round Franco.」
BEGBIE:「OK. Same again? I'm off for a pish. When I come back, that money's still here, OK?」

narration:Sick Boy walks away towards the toilet.
Mak Renton:「The moment you turn your back, we're out that door. I'll be right after you.」
BEGBIE:「You'll never catch us, you flabby bastard. Right, see, when I come back --」
Mak Renton:「We'll be half-way down the road with the money.」
BEGBIE:「I'd fucking kill you.」
narration:Begbie walks away to the bar. Spud and Renton look at each other and the bagof money.Spud looks at the bag and around the pub towards the toilet door and Begbie.Begbie stands at the bar, awaiting the pints.
Mak Renton:「I guess you would, Franco. Are you game for it? Well?」
narration:Renton looks around.
SPUD:「Are you serious?」
narration:Spud says nothing. Suddenly they are interrupted.Sick Boy sits down.
Mak Renton:「I don't know. What do you think? Still here, I see.」
narration:Renton turns to see Begbie making his way through the crowd with the pintshelf precariously. As he reaches the table a Man standing with a group offriends accidentally nudges Begbie, causing a pint to spill over him.

Mak Renton:「Why not? I know I would. Where's Franco?」
BEGBIE:「For fuck's sake. Sorry, mate, I'll get you another.All down my fucking front, you fucking idiot. Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it.Sorry's no going to dry me off, you cunt.」
Mak Renton:「Cool down, Franco. The guy's sorry.」
