narration:Cawing
 There was a raven from King 's Landing .
 Jon Arryn is dead .
 The King rides for Winterfell with the Queen and all the rest of them . The Queen has two brothers ? There 's the pretty one , and there 's the clever one . I would name you the Hand of the King . We were meant to rule together . I have a son , you have a daughter . We 'll join our houses . The boy I beheaded ... he was talking madness . Said the others slaughtered his friends .
Ned:「A Wildling ambush . Maybe . You 're Tyrion Lannister . You ... you 're Ned Stark 's b*st*rd , are n't you ? Let me give you some advice , b*st*rd . Never forget what you are and it can never be used to hurt you . It 's a direwolf . There are no direwolves south of the wall . Now there are five , one for each of the Stark children . What about you ? I 'm not a Stark . That one 's yours , Snow . May I present Viserys of House Targaryen , the rightful King of the Andals , and his sister Daenerys ? I do n't want to be his queen . I want to go home . We go home with an army ... with Khal Drogo 's army . From your sister . She says Jon Arryn was murdered by the Lannisters . She says the King is in danger . What if Jon Arryn told someone ? Whatever Jon Arryn knew died with him . The things I do for love . ♪ Game of Thrones 1x02 ♪ The Kingsroad Original Air Date on April 24 , 2011」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Jorah Mormont:「You need to drink , child . And eat .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Is n't there anything else ?」
Jorah Mormont:「The Dothraki have two things in abundance」
Doreah:「Khaleesi !」
Irri:「Your hands .」
Jorah Mormont:「We 're still not far from Pentos , your Grace . Magister Illyrio has extended his hospitality . You 'd be more comfortable there .」
Viserys Targaryen:「I have no interest in hospitality or comfort . I 'll stay with Drogo until he fulfils his end of the bargain and I have my crown .」
Jorah Mormont:「As you wish , your Grace .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Well , Mormont , as brutish as this life is , I suppose it is preferable to beheading . What did Ned Stark want you for ? Buying from a slaver ?」
Jorah Mormont:「Selling to one ... Some poachers I caught on my land .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Under my reign , you wo n't be punished for such nonsense . You can rest assured of that .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「Better - looking bitches than you 're used to , Uncle . My mother 's been looking for you . We ride for King 's Landing today .」

Tyrion Lannister:「Before you go , you will call on Lord and Lady Stark and offer your sympathies .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「What good will my sympathies do them ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「None . But it is expected of you . Your absence has already been noted .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「The boy means nothing to me . And I ca n't stand the wailing of women .」
Tyrion Lannister:「One word and I 'll hit you again .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「I 'm telling mother !」
Tyrion Lannister:「Go ! Tell her . But first you will get to Lord and Lady Stark and you will fall on your knees in front of them and tell them how very sorry you are , that you are at their service , and that all your prayers are with them . Do you understand ?」
Joffrey Baratheon:「You ca n't ...」
Tyrion Lannister:「Do you understand ?」
Sandor Clegane:「The Prince will remember that , little lord .」

Tyrion Lannister:「I hope so . If he forgets , be a good dog and remind him . Time for breakfast . Bread . And two of those little fish . And a mug of dark beer to wash it down . And bacon , burned black .」
Jaime Lannister:「Little brother .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Beloved siblings .」
Myrcella Baratheon:「Is Bran going to die ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Apparently not .」
Cersei Baratheon:「What do you mean ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「The Maester says the boy may live .」
Cersei Baratheon:「It 's no mercy , letting a child linger in such pain .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Only the gods know for certain . All the rest of us can do is pray . The charms of the north seem entirely lost on you .」
Cersei Baratheon:「I still ca n't believe you 're going . It 's ridiculous even for you .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Where 's your sense of wonder ? The greatest structure ever built , the intrepid men of the Night 's Watch , the wintry abode of the White Walkers .」

Jaime Lannister:「Tell me you 're not thinking of taking the black .」
Tyrion Lannister:「And go celibate ? The whores would go begging from Dorne to Casterly Rock . I just want to stand on top of the Wall and piss off the edge of the world .」
Cersei Baratheon:「The children do n't need to hear your filth . Come .」
Jaime Lannister:「Even if the boy lives , he 'll be a cripple , a grotesque . Give me a good clean death any day .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Speaking for the grotesques , I 'd have to disagree . Death is so final , whereas life ... Life is full of possibilities . I hope the boy does wake . I 'd be very interested to hear what he has to say .」
Jaime Lannister:「My dear brother , there are times you make me wonder whose side you 're on .」
Tyrion Lannister:「My dear brother , you wound me . You know how much I love my family .」
Cersei Baratheon:「Please .」
Catelyn Stark:「I would have dressed , your Grace .」

Cersei Baratheon:「This is your home . I 'm your guest . Handsome one , is n't he ? I lost my first boy , a little black - haired beauty . He was a fighter too ... Tried to beat the fever that took him . Forgive me . It 's the last thing you need to hear right now .」
Catelyn Stark:「I never knew .」
Cersei Baratheon:「It was years ago . Robert was crazed , beat his hands bloody on the wall , all the things men do to show you how much they care . The boy looked just like him . Such a little thing ... A bird without feathers . They came to take his body away and Robert held me . I screamed and I battled , but he held me . That little bundle . They took him away and I never saw him again . Never have visited the crypt , never . I pray to the Mother every morning and night that she return your child to you .」
Catelyn Stark:「I am grateful .」
Cersei Baratheon:「Perhaps this time she 'll listen .」
Jaime Lannister:「A sword for the wall ?」
Jon Snow:「I already have one .」
Jaime Lannister:「Good man . Have you swung it yet ?」
Jon Snow:「Of course I have .」
Jaime Lannister:「At someone , I mean . It 's a strange thing , the first time you cut a man . You realize we 're nothing but sacks of meat and blood and some bone to keep it all standing . Let me thank you ahead of time for guarding us all from the perils beyond the Wall ... Wildlings and White Walkers and whatnot . We 're grateful to have good , strong men like you protecting us .」
Jon Snow:「We 've guarded the kingdoms for 8 000 years .」
Jaime Lannister:「Is it " we " already ? Have you taken your vows then ?」
Jon Snow:「Soon enough .」
Jaime Lannister:「Give my regards to the Night 's Watch . I 'm sure it will be thrilling to serve in such an elite force . And if not ? It 's only for life .」
Arya Stark:「Thank you , Nymeria . Septa Mordane says I have to do it again . My things were n't properly folded , she says . Who cares how they 're folded ? ! They 're going to get all messed up anyway .」
Jon Snow:「It 's good you 've got help .」
Arya Stark:「Watch . Nymeria , gloves .」
Jon Snow:「Impressive .」
Arya Stark:「Shut up . Nymeria , gloves !」
Jon Snow:「I have something for you . And it has to be packed very carefully .」
Arya Stark:「A present ?」
Jon Snow:「Close the door . This is no toy . Be careful you do n't cut yourself .」
Arya Stark:「It 's so skinny .」

Jon Snow:「So are you . I had the blacksmith make it for you special . It wo n't hack a man 's head off , but it can poke him full of holes if you 're quick enough .」
Arya Stark:「I can be quick .」
Jon Snow:「You 'll have to work at it every day . How does it feel ? Do you like the balance ?」
Arya Stark:「I think so .」
Jon Snow:「First lesson」
Arya Stark:「I know which end to use .」
Jon Snow:「I 'm going to miss you . Careful . All the best swords have names , you know .」
Arya Stark:「Sansa can keep her sewing needles . I 've got a needle of my own .」
Jon Snow:「I came to say goodbye to Bran .」
Catelyn Stark:「You 've said it .」
Jon Snow:「I wish I could be here when you wake up . I 'm going north with Uncle Benjen . I 'm taking the black . I know we always talked about seeing the Wall together , but you 'll be able to come visit me at Castle Black when you 're better . I 'll know my way around by then . I 'll be a sworn brother of the Night 's Watch . We can go out walking beyond the Wall , if you 're not afraid .」
Catelyn Stark:「I want you to leave . 17 years ago you rode off with Robert Baratheon . You came back a year later with another woman 's son . And now you 're leaving again .」
Eddard Stark:「I have no choice .」
Catelyn Stark:「That 's what men always say when honor calls . That 's what you tell your families , tell yourselves . You do have a choice . And you 've made it . I ca n't do it , Ned . I really ca n't .」
Eddard Stark:「You can . You must .」
Robb Stark:「You 've said goodbye to Bran ? He 's not going to die . I know it .」
Jon Snow:「You Starks are hard to kill .」
Robb Stark:「My mother ?」
Jon Snow:「She was very kind .」
Robb Stark:「Good . Next time I see you , you 'll be all in black .」
Jon Snow:「It was always my color .」
Robb Stark:「Farewell , Snow .」
Jon Snow:「And you , Stark .」
Eddard Stark:「There 's great honor serving in the Night 's Watch . The Starks have manned the Wall for thousands of years . And you are a Stark . You might not have my name , but you have my blood .」
Jon Snow:「Is my mother alive ? Does she know about me ? Where I am , where I 'm going ? Does she care ?」
Eddard Stark:「The next time we see each other , we 'll talk about your mother . I promise .」

Robert Baratheon:「Gods , this is country ! I 've half a mind to leave them all behind and keep going .」
Eddard Stark:「I 've half a mind to go with you .」
Robert Baratheon:「What do you say , just you and me on the Kingsroad , swords at our sides , a couple of tavern wenches to warm our beds tonight .」
Eddard Stark:「You should have asked me 20 years ago .」
Robert Baratheon:「There were wars to fight , women to marry ... We never had the chance to be young .」
Eddard Stark:「I recall a few chances .」
Robert Baratheon:「There was that one ... Oh , what was her name ? That common girl of yours ? Becca ? With the great big tits you could bury your face in .」
Eddard Stark:「Bessie . She was one of yours .」
Robert Baratheon:「Bessie ! Thank the gods for Bessie and her tits . Yours was ... Aleena ? No . You told me once . Meryl ? Your b*st*rd 's mother ?」
Eddard Stark:「Wylla .」
Robert Baratheon:「That 's it . She must have been a rare wench to make Lord Eddard Stark forget his honor . You never told me what she looked like .」
Eddard Stark:「Nor will I.」
Robert Baratheon:「We were at war . None of us knew if we were gon na go back home again . You 're too hard on yourself . You always have been . I swear if I were n't your King , you 'd have hit me already .」
Eddard Stark:「The worst thing about your coronation ... I 'll never get to hit you again .」
Robert Baratheon:「Trust me , that 's not the worst thing . There was a rider in the night .」
Eddard Stark:「Daenerys Targaryen has we d some Dothraki horselord . What of it ? Should we send her a wedding gift ?」
Robert Baratheon:「A knife perhaps , a good sharp one , and a bold man to wield it .」
Eddard Stark:「She 's little more than a child .」
Robert Baratheon:「Soon enough that child will spread her legs and start breeding .」
Eddard Stark:「Tell me we 're not speaking of this .」
Robert Baratheon:「Oh , it 's unspeakable to you ? What her father did to your family ... That was unspeakable . What Rhaegar Targaryen did to your sister ... the woman I loved . I 'll kill every Targaryen I get my hands on .」
Eddard Stark:「But you ca n't get your hands on this one , can you ?」
Robert Baratheon:「This Khal Drogo , it 's said he has 100 000 men in his horde .」

Eddard Stark:「Even a million Dothraki are no threat to the realm , as long as they remain on the other side of the Narrow Sea . They have no ships , Robert .」
Robert Baratheon:「There are still those in the Seven Kingdoms who call me Usurper . If the Targaryen boy crosses with a Dothraki horde at his back , the scum will join him .」
Eddard Stark:「He will not cross . And if by chance he does , we 'll throw him back into the sea .」
Robert Baratheon:「There 's a war coming , Ned . I do n't know when , I do n't know who we 'll be fighting , but it 's coming .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Benjen Stark:「Sit . You 'll be fed . Untie them .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Rapers . They were given a choice no doubt ... Castration or the Wall . Most choose the knife . Not impressed by your new brothers ? Lovely thing about the Watch ... You discard your old family and get a whole new one .」
Jon Snow:「Why do you read so much ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Look at me and tell me what you see .」
Jon Snow:「Is this a trick ?」

Tyrion Lannister:「What you see is a dwarf . If I 'd been born a peasant they might 've left me out in the woods to die . Alas , I was born a Lannister of Casterly Rock . Things are expected of me . My father was the Hand of the King for 20 years .」
Jon Snow:「Until your brother killed that King .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Until my brother killed him . Life is full of these little ironies . My sister married the new King and my repulsive nephew will be King after him . I must do my part for the honor of my house , would n't you agree ? But how ? Well , my brother has his sword and I have my mind . And a mind needs books like a sword needs a whetstone . That 's why I read so much . And you ? What 's your story , b*st*rd ?」
Jon Snow:「Ask me nicely and maybe I 'll tell you , dwarf .」
Tyrion Lannister:「A b*st*rd boy with nothing to inherit , off to join the ancient order of the Night 's Watch , alongside his valiant brothers - in - arms .」
Jon Snow:「The Night 's Watch protects the realm from ...」

Tyrion Lannister:「Yes yes , against grumpkins and snarks and all the other monsters your wet nurse warned you about . You 're a smart boy . You do n't believe that nonsense . Everything 's better with some wine in the belly .」

narration:Tell them all to stop . For how long ? Until I command them otherwise . You 're learning to talk like a Queen . Not a Queen . A Khaleesi . Lord Snow here grew up in a castle spitting down on the likes of you . Everybody knew what this place was , but no one told me ... no one but you . The Khaleesi have baby inside her . It is true . Her belly start to swell . I need to ride to Qohor . What did Aaerys Targaryen say when you stabbed him in the back ? He said the same thing he 'd been saying for hours ... " burn them all . " My brother instructs us to stage a tournament in honor of Lord Stark 's appointment as Hand of the King . This tournament is an extravagance we can not afford . I 'm leaving this morning . My job is out there . I wo n't let you down . You 're not going . Here , a man gets what he earns when he earns it . I do n't take orders from savages or their sluts . I do n't want my brother harmed . Mormont , kill these Dothraki dogs ! We 've come to a dangerous place . We must protect ourselves . Ah ! We allow the Northerners too much power . A good King knows when to save his strength and when to destroy his enemies . So you agree ... The Starks are enemies ? Everyone who is n't us is an enemy . Do you know whose dagger this is ?
Littlefinger:「I do . Tyrion Lannister 's ...」
narration:The imp .
 ♪ Game of Thrones 1x04 ♪ Cripples , Bastards , and Broken Things Original Air Date on May 8 , 2011
Old Nan:「The little Lord 's been dreaming again .」
Theon Greyjoy:「We have visitors .」
Bran Stark:「I do n't want to see anyone .」
Theon Greyjoy:「Really ? If I was cooped up all day with no one but this old bat for company , I 'd go mad . Anyway , you do n't have a choice . Robb 's waiting .」
Bran Stark:「I do n't want to go .」
Theon Greyjoy:「Neither do I. But Robb 's Lord of Winterfell , which means I do what he says and you do what I say . Hodor ! Help Bran down the hall .」
Tyrion Lannister:「I must say I received a slightly warmer welcome on my last visit .」

Robb Stark:「Any man of the Night 's Watch is welcome at Winterfell .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Any man of the Night 's Watch , but not I , eh , boy ?」
Robb Stark:「I 'm not your boy , Lannister . I 'm Lord of Winterfell while my father is away .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Then you might learn a lord 's courtesy . So it 's true . Hello Bran . Do you remember anything about what happened ?」
Maester Luwin:「He has no memory of that day .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Curious .」
Robb Stark:「Why are you here ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Would your charming companion be so kind as to kneel ? My neck is beginning to hurt .」
Bran Stark:「Kneel , Hodor .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Do you like to ride , Bran ?」
Bran Stark:「Yes . Well , I mean I did like to .」
Maester Luwin:「The boy has lost the use of his legs .」
Tyrion Lannister:「What of it ? With the right horse and saddle , even a cripple can ride .」
Bran Stark:「I 'm not a cripple .」

Tyrion Lannister:「Then I 'm not a dwarf . My father will rejoice to hear it . I have a gift for you . Give that to your saddler . He 'll provide the rest . You must shape the horse to the rider . Start with a yearling and teach it to respond to the reins and to the boy 's voice .」
Bran Stark:「Will I really be able to ride ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「You will . On horseback you will be as tall as any of them .」
Robb Stark:「Is this some kind of trick ? Why do you want to help him ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「I have a tender spot in my heart for cripples , bastards and broken things .」
Robb Stark:「You 've done my brother a kindness . The hospitality of Winterfell is yours .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Spare me your false courtesies , Lord Stark . There 's a brothel outside your walls . There I 'll find a bed and both of us can sleep easier .」
Theon Greyjoy:「Could n't resist some northern ass ? If you like redheads , ask for Ros .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Come to see me off , Greyjoy ? Kind of you . Your master does n't seem to like Lannisters .」

Theon Greyjoy:「He 's not my master .」
Tyrion Lannister:「No , of course not . What happened here ? Where is lady Stark ? Why did n't she receive me ?」
Theon Greyjoy:「She was n't feeling well .」
Tyrion Lannister:「She 's not in Winterfell , is she ? Where did she go ?」
Theon Greyjoy:「My lady 's whereabouts ...」
Tyrion Lannister:「My lady ? Your loyalty to your captors is touching . Tell me , how do you think Balon Greyjoy would feel if he could see his only surviving son has turned lackey ? I still remember seeing my father 's fleet burn in Lannisport . I believe your uncles were responsible ?」
Theon Greyjoy:「Must have been a pretty sight .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Nothing prettier than watching sailors burn alive . Yes , a great victory for your people . Shame how it all turned out .」
Theon Greyjoy:「We were outnumbered 10 to one .」
Tyrion Lannister:「A stupid rebellion then . I suppose your father realized that when your brothers died in battle . Now here you are , your enemy 's squire .」
Theon Greyjoy:「Careful , Imp .」

Tyrion Lannister:「I 've offended you . Forgive me , it 's been a rough morning . Anyway , do n't despair . I 'm a constant disappointment to my own father and I 've learned to live with it . Your next tumble with Ros is on me . I 'll try not to wear her out .」
Jon Snow:「Leg , shoulder , leg . Left foot forward . Good . Now pivot as you deliver the stroke . Put all your weight behind it .」
Grenn:「What in seven hells is that ?」
Pyp:「They 'll need an eighth hell to fit him in .」
Alliser Thorne:「Tell them your name .」
Samwell Tarly:「Samwell Tarly , of Horn Hill . I mean , I was of Horn Hill . I 've come to take the black .」
Rast:「Come to take the black pudding .」
Alliser Thorne:「Well , you could n't be any worse than you look . See what he can do .」
Samwell Tarly:「I yield . Please , no more .」
Alliser Thorne:「On your feet . Pick up your sword . Hit him till he finds his feet . It seems they 've run short of poachers and thieves down south . Now they send us squealing bloody pigs . Again , harder .」

Jon Snow:「Enough ! He yielded .」
Alliser Thorne:「Looks like the b*st*rd 's in love . All right then , lord Snow , you wish to defend your lady love , let 's make it an exercise . You two . Three of you ought to be sufficient to make lady piggy squeal . All you 've got to do is get past the b*st*rd .」
Jon Snow:「Are you sure you want to do this ?」
Grenn:「No . Yield yield yield ! I yield .」
Alliser Thorne:「We 're done for today . Go clean the armory . That 's all you 're good for .」
Pyp:「Well fought !」
Grenn:「Piss off .」
Samwell Tarly:「Did he hurt you ?」
Jon Snow:「I 've had worse .」
Samwell Tarly:「You can call me Sam ... If you want . My mother calls me Sam .」
Jon Snow:「It 's not going to get any easier , you know ? You 'll have to defend yourself .」
Grenn:「Why did n't you get up and fight ?」
Samwell Tarly:「I wanted to . I just could n't .」
Grenn:「Why not ?」
Samwell Tarly:「I 'm a coward . My father always says so .」
Jon Snow:「The Wall 's no place for cowards .」
Samwell Tarly:「You 're right . I 'm sorry . I just ... Wanted to thank you .」
Grenn:「A bloody coward . People saw us talking to him . Now they 'll think we 're cowards too .」
Pyp:「You 're too stupid to be a coward .」
Grenn:「You 're too stupid to be a ...」
Pyp:「Quick now , before summer 's over .」
Grenn:「Come on here !」
Jorah Mormont:「Vaes Dothrak . The city of the horselords .」
Viserys Targaryen:「A pile of mud . Mud and sh1 t and twigs - best these savages can do .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「These are my people now . You should n't call them savages .」
Viserys Targaryen:「I 'll call them what I like , because they 're my people . This is my army . Khal Drogo is marching the wrong way with my army .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「If my brother was given an army of Dothraki , could you conquer the Seven Kingdoms ?」
Jorah Mormont:「The Dothraki have never crossed the Narrow Sea . They fear any water their horses ca n't drink .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「But if they did ?」
Jorah Mormont:「King Robert is fool enough to meet them in open battle , but the men advising him are different .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「And you know these men ?」

Jorah Mormont:「I fought beside them once , long ago . Now Ned Stark wants my head . He drove me from my land .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「You sold slaves . Why ?」
Jorah Mormont:「I had no money and an expensive wife .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「And where is she now ?」
Jorah Mormont:「In another place , with another man .」
Doreah:「Your Grace ?」
Viserys Targaryen:「Yes , my dear ?」
Doreah:「They call you the last dragon ...」
Viserys Targaryen:「They do .」
Doreah:「You have dragon 's blood in your veins ?」
Viserys Targaryen:「It 's entirely possible .」
Doreah:「What happened to the dragons ? I was told that brave men killed them all .」
Viserys Targaryen:「The brave men did n't kill dragons . The brave men rode them . Rode them from Valyria to build the greatest civilization this world has ever seen . The breath of the greatest dragon forged the Iron Throne , which the Usurper is keeping warm for me . The swords of the vanquished , a thousand of them ... melted together like so many candles .」
Doreah:「I have always wanted to see a dragon . There is nothing in the world that I would rather see .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Really ? Why dragons ?」
Doreah:「They can fly . And wherever they are , just a few flaps of their wings and they 're somewhere else ... Far away . And they can kill . Anyone or anything that tries to hurt them gets burned away to nothing ... melted ... like so many candles . Seeing a dragon would make me very happy .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Well , after 15 years in a pleasure house , I imagine just seeing the sky makes you happy .」
Doreah:「I was not locked in . I have seen things .」
Viserys Targaryen:「What have you seen ?」
Doreah:「I 've seen ... A man from Asshai with a dagger of real dragonglass . I 've seen a man who could change his face the way that other men change their clothes . And I 've seen a pirate who wore his weight in gold and whose ship had sails of colored silk . So ... Have you seen one ?」
Viserys Targaryen:「A pirate ship ?」
Doreah:「A dragon .」
Viserys Targaryen:「No , the last one died many years before I was born . I 'll tell you what I have seen」
Doreah:「What happened to the skulls ?」
Viserys Targaryen:「I do n't know . The Usurper had them smashed to powder , I expect . Scattered to the wind .」
Doreah:「That 's very sad .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Yes , it is . What did I buy you for ? To make me sad ?」

Doreah:「No , your Grace . To teach your sister .」
Viserys Targaryen:「To teach my sister how to be a better lover ? You think I bought you to make Khal Drogo happy ? You pretty little idiot . Go on then . Get on with it .」
Septa Mordane:「Someday your husband will sit there and you will sit by his side . And one day , before too long , you will present your son to the court . All the lords of Westeros will gather here to see the little prince ...」
Sansa Stark:「What if I have a girl ?」
Septa Mordane:「Gods be good , you 'll have boys and girls and plenty of them .」
Sansa Stark:「What if I only have girls ?」
Septa Mordane:「I would n't worry about that .」
Sansa Stark:「Jeyne Poole 's mother had five children , all of them girls .」
Septa Mordane:「Yes , but it 's highly unlikely .」
Sansa Stark:「But what if ?」
Septa Mordane:「If you only had girls , I suppose the throne would pass to Prince Joffrey 's little brother .」
Sansa Stark:「And everyone would hate me .」
Septa Mordane:「Nobody could ever hate you .」
Sansa Stark:「Joffrey does .」
Septa Mordane:「Nonsense . Why would you say such a thing ? That business with the wolves ? I 've told you a hundred times ... A direwolf is not ...」
Sansa Stark:「Please shut up about it .」
Septa Mordane:「Do you remember your lessons ? Who built the Iron Throne ?」
Sansa Stark:「Aegon the Conqueror .」
Septa Mordane:「And who built the Red Keep ?」
Sansa Stark:「Maegor the Cruel .」
Septa Mordane:「And how many years did it take to build ...」
Sansa Stark:「My grandfather and uncle were murdered here , were n't they ?」
Septa Mordane:「They were killed on the orders of King Aerys , yes .」
Sansa Stark:「The Mad King .」
Septa Mordane:「Commonly known as the Mad King .」
Sansa Stark:「Why were they killed ?」
Septa Mordane:「You should be speak to your father about these matters .」
Sansa Stark:「I do n't want to speak to my father , ever .」
Septa Mordane:「You will find it in your heart to forgive your father .」
Sansa Stark:「No , I wo n't .」
Janos Slynt:「It 's the Hand 's tournament that 's causing all this trouble , my Lords .」
Eddard Stark:「The King 's tournament . I assure you the Hand wants no part of it .」

Janos Slynt:「Call it what you will , Lord Stark Ser , the city is packed with people and more flooding in every day . Last night we had a tavern riot , a brothel fire , three stabbings and a drunken horse race down the Street of Sisters .」
Varys:「Dreadful .」
Renly Baratheon:「If you ca n't keep the King 's peace , perhaps the City Watch should be commanded by someone who can .」
Janos Slynt:「I need more men .」
Eddard Stark:「You 'll get 50 . Lord Baelish will see it paid for .」
Petyr Baelish:「I will ?」
Eddard Stark:「You found money for a champion 's purse , you can find money to keep the peace . I 'll also give you 20 of my household guards till the crowds have left .」
Janos Slynt:「Thank you , my Lord Hand Ser . They will be put to good use .」
Eddard Stark:「The sooner this is over , the better .」
Varys:「The realm prospers from such events , my Lord . They give the great a chance at glory , and the lowly a respite from their woes .」
Petyr Baelish:「And every inn in the city is full and the whores are walking bow - legged .」
Eddard Stark:「I 'm sure the tourney puts coins in many a pocket . Now ... If there 's nothing else , my Lords ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「This heat . On days like this , I envy you northerners your summer snows . Until tomorrow my Lord .」
Eddard Stark:「I 've been hoping to talk to you about Jon Arryn .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Lord Arryn ? His death was a great sadness to all of us . I took personal charge of his care , but I could not save him . His sickness struck him very hard and very fast . I saw him in my chambers just the night before he passed . Lord Jon often came to me for counsel .」
Eddard Stark:「Why ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「I have been Grand Maester for many years . Kings and Hands have come to me for advice since ...」
Eddard Stark:「What did Jon want the night before he died ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「He came inquiring after a book .」
Eddard Stark:「A book ? What book ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「I fear it would be of little interest to you , my Lord . A ponderous tome .」
Eddard Stark:「I 'd like to read it .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「" The lineages and histories of the great houses of the Seven Kingdoms , with descriptions of many high lords and noble ladies and their children . "」

Eddard Stark:「" Harkon Umber , first of his name , born to lord Hother Umber and lady Amaryllis Umber in the 183rd year after Aegon 's landing , at the last hearth . Blue of eye , brown of hair and fair complected , died in his 14th year of a wound sustained in a bear hunt . "」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「As I said , my Lord , a ponderous read .」
Eddard Stark:「Did Jon Arryn tell you what he wanted with it ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「He did not , my Lord . And I did not presume to ask .」
Eddard Stark:「Jon 's death ...」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Such a tragedy .」
Eddard Stark:「Did he say anything to you during his final hours ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Nothing of import , my Lord . There was one phrase he kept repeating」
Eddard Stark:「" The seed is strong " ? What does that mean ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「The dying mind is a demented mind , Lord Stark . For all the weight they 're given , last words are usually as significant as first words .」
Eddard Stark:「And you 're quite certain he died of a natural illness ?」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「What else could it be ?」
Eddard Stark:「Poison .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「A disturbing thought . I do n't think it likely . The Hand was loved by all . What sort of man would dare ...」
Eddard Stark:「I 've heard it said that poison is a woman 's weapon .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Yes . Women , cravens ... and eunuchs . Did you know that lord Varys is a eunuch ?」
Eddard Stark:「Everybody knows that .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Of course . How that sort of person found himself on the King 's Council , I will never know .」
Eddard Stark:「I 've taken enough of your time .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「No trouble at all , my Lord . It 's a great honor ...」
Eddard Stark:「Thank you . I 'll find my own way out .」
Arya Stark:「Syrio says a water dancer can stand on one toe for hours .」
Eddard Stark:「It 's a hard fall down these steps .」
Arya Stark:「Syrio says every hurt is a lesson and every lesson makes you better . Tomorrow I 'm going to be chasing cats .」
Eddard Stark:「Cats ? Syrio says ...」
Arya Stark:「He says every swordsman should study cats . They 're quiet as shadows and as light as feathers . You have to be quick to catch them .」
Eddard Stark:「He 's right about that .」
Arya Stark:「Now that Bran 's awake will he come live with us ?」

Eddard Stark:「He needs to get his strength back first .」
Arya Stark:「He wants to be a knight of the King 's Guard . He ca n't be one now , can he ?」
Eddard Stark:「No . But someday he could be Lord of a holdfast or sit on the King 's Council . Or he might raise castles like Brandon the Builder .」
Arya Stark:「Can I be Lord of a holdfast ?」
Eddard Stark:「You will marry a high Lord and rule his castle . And your sons shall be knights and princes and lords .」
Arya Stark:「No . That 's not me .」
Samwell Tarly:「Hello . Ser Alliser said I 'm to be your new watch partner . I should warn you , I do n't see all that well .」
Jon Snow:「Come stand by the fire . It 's warmer .」
Samwell Tarly:「No , that 's all right . I 'm fine .」
Jon Snow:「You 're not . You 're freezing .」
Samwell Tarly:「I do n't like high places .」
Jon Snow:「You ca n't fight . You ca n't see . You 're afraid of heights and almost everything else probably . What are you doing here , Sam ?」
Samwell Tarly:「On the morning of my 18th nameday , my father came to me . " You 're almost a man now , " he said , " but you 're not worthy of my land and title . Tomorrow , you 're going to take the black , forsake all claim to your inheritance and start north . If you do not , " he said , " then we 'll have a hunt and somewhere in these woods your horse will stumble and you 'll be thrown from your saddle to die . Or so I 'll tell your mother . Nothing would please me more . " Ser Alliser 's going to make me fight again tomorrow , is n't he ?」
Jon Snow:「Yes , he is .」
Samwell Tarly:「I 'm not going to get any better , you know ?」
Jon Snow:「Well ... You ca n't get any worse .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Petyr Baelish:「I hear you 're reading a boring book .」
Eddard Stark:「Pycelle talks too much .」
Petyr Baelish:「He never stops . Do you know Ser Hugh of the Vale ? Not surprising . Until recently , he was only a squire ... Jon Arryn 's squire . He was knighted almost immediately after his master 's untimely death .」
Eddard Stark:「Knighted for what ? Why are you telling me this ?」
Petyr Baelish:「I promised Cat that I 'd help you .」
Eddard Stark:「Where is Ser Hugh ? I 'll speak to him .」

Petyr Baelish:「A singularly bad idea . Do you see that boy there ? One of Varys 's little birds . The Spider has taken a great interest in your comings and goings . Now look there . That one belongs to the Queen . And do you see that Septa pretending to read her book ?」
Eddard Stark:「Varys or the Queen ?」
Petyr Baelish:「No . She 's one of mine . Is there someone in your service whom you trust completely ?」
Eddard Stark:「Yes .」
Petyr Baelish:「The wiser answer was no , my Lord . Get a message to this paragon of yours ... Discreetly . Send him to question Ser Hugh . After that , you might want him to visit a certain armorer in the city . He lives in a large house at the top of the street of Steel .」
Eddard Stark:「Why ?」
Petyr Baelish:「I have my observers , as I said , and it 's possible that they saw Lord Arryn visit this armorer several times in the weeks before his death .」
Eddard Stark:「Lord Baelish , perhaps I was wrong to distrust you .」
Petyr Baelish:「Distrusting me was the wisest thing you 've done since you climbed off your horse .」
Jory Cassel:「Ser Hugh ? Ser Hugh !」
Hugh of the Vale:「As you can see , I 'm busy .」
Jory Cassel:「I 'm here on behalf of Lord Eddard Stark , the Hand of the king . I 'm the captain of his guard .」
Hugh of the Vale:「I 'm sorry . I did n't catch your name , Ser ...」
Jory Cassel:「No " ser . " I 'm not a knight .」
Hugh of the Vale:「I see . Well , it just so happens that I am .」
Jory Cassel:「He said he 'd be glad to talk to the Hand himself . He 's a knight , you see .」
Eddard Stark:「A knight . They strut around like roosters down here . Even the ones who 've never seen an arrow coming their way .」
Jory Cassel:「You should n't be out here , my Lord . There 's no telling who has eyes where .」
Eddard Stark:「Let them look .」
Tobho Mott:「The former Hand did call on me , my Lord , several times . I regret to say he did not honor me with his patronage .」
Eddard Stark:「What did Lord Arryn want ?」
Tobho Mott:「He always came to see the boy .」
Eddard Stark:「I 'd like to see him as well .」
Tobho Mott:「As you wish , my Lord . Gendry ! Here he is . Strong for his age . He works hard . Show the Hand the helmet you made , lad .」
Eddard Stark:「This is fine work .」

Gendry:「It 's not for sale .」
Tobho Mott:「Boy , this is the King 's Hand ! If his lordship wants the helmet ...」
Gendry:「I made it for me .」
Tobho Mott:「Forgive him , my Lord .」
Eddard Stark:「There 's nothing to forgive . When Lord Arryn came to visit you , what would you talk about ?」
Gendry:「He just asked me questions is all , my Lord .」
Eddard Stark:「What kind of questions ?」
Gendry:「About my work at first , if I was being treated well , if I liked it here . But then he started asking me about my mother .」
Eddard Stark:「Your mother ?」
Gendry:「Who she was , what she looked like .」
Eddard Stark:「What did you tell him ?」
Gendry:「She died when I was little . She had yellow hair . She 'd sing to me sometimes .」
Eddard Stark:「Look at me . Get back to work , lad . If the day ever comes when that boy'd rather wield a sword than forge one , you send him to me .」
Jory Cassel:「Find anything ?」
Eddard Stark:「King Robert 's b*st*rd son .」
Jory Cassel:「This is for the King from Lord Stark .」
Jaime Lannister:「Listen . Do you hear them ? How many do you think are in there with him ? Guess .」
Jory Cassel:「Three ? Four ?」
Jaime Lannister:「He likes to do this when I 'm on duty ... He makes me listen as he insults my sister .」
Jory Cassel:「Forgive me , my Lord ...」
Jaime Lannister:「Why do I have to forgive you ? Have you wronged me ?」
Jory Cassel:「We 've met before , you know .」
Jaime Lannister:「Have we ? Strange , I 've forgotten .」
Jory Cassel:「The siege of Pyke . We fought side by side one afternoon .」
Jaime Lannister:「That 's where you got your scar ?」
Jory Cassel:「Aye . One of the Greyjoys nearly took my eye .」
Jaime Lannister:「Vicious sons of whores .」
Jory Cassel:「They like their bloodshed .」
Jaime Lannister:「They stopped liking it at the end . That was a proper battle . D'you remember Thoros of Myr charging through the breach ?」
Jory Cassel:「With his burning sword ? I 'll remember that till the day I die .」
Jaime Lannister:「I saw the youngest of the Greyjoy lads at Winterfell . It was like seeing a shark on a mountaintop .」
Jory Cassel:「Theon ? He 's a good lad .」
Jaime Lannister:「I doubt it .」

Robert Baratheon:「I 'll bet you smell of blackberry jam ! Let me smell it . Come here .」
Jory Cassel:「Can I leave this with you ? The message from Lord Stark .」
Jaime Lannister:「I do n't serve Lord Stark .」
Grenn:「Where have you been ?」
Jon Snow:「Watch duty . With Sam .」
Pyp:「Prince Porkchop . Where is he ?」
Jon Snow:「He was n't hungry .」
Pyp:「Impossible !」
Jon Snow:「That 's enough . Sam 's no different from the rest of us . There was no place for him in the world , so he 's come here . We 're not going to hurt him in the training yard anymore . Never again , no matter what Thorne says . He 's our brother now and we 're going to protect him .」
Rast:「You are in love , Lord Snow . You girls can do as you please . But if Thorne puts me up against Lady Piggy , I 'm gon na slice me off a side of bacon .」
Jon Snow:「No one touches Sam .」
Alliser Thorne:「What are you waiting for ? Attack him ! You , get in there .」
Grenn:「Hit me . Go on , hit me ! I yield ! Yield yield . I yield .」
Alliser Thorne:「You think this is funny , do you ? When you 're out there beyond the Wall with the sun going down , do you want a man at your back ? Or a sniveling boy ?」
Viserys Targaryen:「You send this whore to give me commands ? I should have sent you back her head !」
Doreah:「Forgive me , Khaleesi . I did as you asked .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Hush now . It 's all right . Irri , take her and leave us .」
Irri:「Yes , Khaleesi .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Why did you hit her ? !」
Viserys Targaryen:「How many times do I have to tell you ? You do not command me .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「I was n't commanding you . I just wanted to invite you to supper .」
Viserys Targaryen:「What 's this ?」
Daenerys Targaryen:「It 's a gift . I had it made for you .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Dothraki rags ? Are you going to dress me now ?」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Please .」
Viserys Targaryen:「This stinks of manure . All of it .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Stop - stop it .」
Viserys Targaryen:「You would turn me into one of them , would n't you ? Next you 'll want to braid my hair .」

Daenerys Targaryen:「You 've no right to a braid . You 've won no victories yet .」
Viserys Targaryen:「You do not talk back to me ! You are a horselord 's slut . And now you 've woken the dragon ...」
Daenerys Targaryen:「I am a Khaleesi of the Dothraki ! I am the wife of the great Khal and I carry his son inside me . The next time you raise a hand to me will be the last time you have hands .」
Samwell Tarly:「I know for a fact that some of the officers go to that brothel in Mole 's Town .」
Jon Snow:「I would n't doubt it .」
Samwell Tarly:「Do n't you think it 's a little bit unfair ? Making us take our vows while they sneak off for a little sally on the side ?」
Jon Snow:「Sally on the side ?」
Samwell Tarly:「It 's silly , is n't it ? What , we ca n't defend the Wall unless we 're celibate ? It 's absurd .」
Jon Snow:「I did n't think you 'd be so upset about it .」
Samwell Tarly:「Why not ? Because I 'm fat ? But I like girls just as much as you do . They might not like me as much . I 've never ... been with one . You 've probably had hundreds .」
Jon Snow:「As a matter of fact , I 'm the same as you .」
Samwell Tarly:「I find that hard to believe .」
Jon Snow:「I came very close once . I was alone in a room with a naked girl , but ...」
Samwell Tarly:「You did n't know where to put it ?」
Jon Snow:「I know where to put it .」
Samwell Tarly:「Was she ... Old and ugly ?」
Jon Snow:「Young and gorgeous . A whore named Ros .」
Samwell Tarly:「What color hair ?」
Jon Snow:「Red .」
Samwell Tarly:「I like red hair . And her ... Her ...」
Jon Snow:「You do n't want to know .」
Samwell Tarly:「That good ?」
Jon Snow:「Better .」
Samwell Tarly:「Oh no . So why exactly did you not make love to Ros with the perfect ...」
Jon Snow:「What 's my name ?」
Samwell Tarly:「Jon Snow ?」
Jon Snow:「And why is my surname Snow ?」
Samwell Tarly:「Because ... You 're a b*st*rd from the north .」

Jon Snow:「I never met my mother . My father would n't even tell me her name . I do n't know if she 's living or dead . I do n't know if she 's a noblewoman or a fisherman 's wife ... Or a whore . So I sat there in the brothel as Ros took off her clothes . But I could n't do it . Because all I could think was what if I got her pregnant and she had a child , another b*st*rd named Snow ? It 's not a good life for a child .」
Samwell Tarly:「So ... You did n't know where to put it ?」
Alliser Thorne:「Enjoying yourselves ? You look cold , boys .」
Samwell Tarly:「It is a bit nippy .」
Alliser Thorne:「A bit nippy , yeah , by the fire , indoors . It 's still summer . Do you boys even remember the last winter ? How long has it been now ? What , 10 years ? I remember . Was it uncomfortable at Winterfell ? Were there days when you just could n't get warm , never mind how many fires your servants built ?」
Jon Snow:「I build my own fires .」
Alliser Thorne:「That 's admirable . I spent six months out there , beyond the Wall during the last winter . It was supposed to be a two - week mission . We heard a rumor Mance Rayder was planning to attack Eastwatch . So we went out to look for some of his men ... Capture them , gather some knowledge . The Wildlings who fight for Mance Rayder are hard men . Harder than you 'll ever be . They know their country better than we do . They knew there was a storm coming in . So they hid in their caves and waited for it to pass . And we got caught in the open . Wind so strong it yanked 100-foot trees straight from the ground , roots and all . If you took your gloves off to find your cock to have a piss , you lost a finger to the frost . And all in darkness . You do n't know cold . Neither of you do . The horses died first . We did n't have enough to feed them , to keep them warm . Eating the horses was easy . But later when we started to fall ... That was n't easy . We should have had a couple of boys like you along , should n't we ? Soft , fat boys like you . We 'd have lasted a fortnight on you and still had bones leftover for soup . Soon we 'll have new recruits and you lot will be passed along to the Lord Commander for assignment and they will call you men of the Night 's Watch , but you 'd be fools to believe it . You 're boys still . And come the winter you will die ... Like flies .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「I hit him . I hit the dragon .」
Jorah Mormont:「Your brother Rhaegar was the last dragon . Viserys is less than the shadow of a snake .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「He is still the true King .」
Jorah Mormont:「The truth now」

Daenerys Targaryen:「No . But the common people are waiting for him . Illyrio said they 're sewing dragon banners and praying for his return .」
Jorah Mormont:「The common people pray for rain , health and a summer that never ends . They do n't care what games the high Lords play .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「What do you pray for , Ser Jorah ?」
Jorah Mormont:「Home .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「I pray for home too . My brother will never take back the Seven Kingdoms . He could n't lead an army even if my husband gave him one . He 'll never take us home .」
Petyr Baelish:「Lover 's quarrel ?」
Sansa Stark:「I 'm sorry . Do I ... ?」
Septa Mordane:「Sansa dear , this is Lord Baelish . He 's known ...」
Petyr Baelish:「An old friend of the family . I 've known your mother a long long time .」
Arya Stark:「Why do they call you Littlefinger ?」
Sansa Stark:「Arya !」
Septa Mordane:「Do n't be rude !」
Petyr Baelish:「No , it 's quite all right . When I was a child I was very small and I come from a little spit of land called The Fingers , so you see , it 's an exceedingly clever nickname .」
Robert Baratheon:「I 've been sitting here for days ! Start the damn joust before I piss myself !」
Sansa Stark:「Gods , who is that ?」
Petyr Baelish:「Ser Gregor Clegane . They call him the Mountain . The Hound 's older brother .」
Sansa Stark:「And his opponent ?」
Petyr Baelish:「Ser Hugh of the Vale . He was Jon Arryn 's squire . Look how far he 's come .」
Robert Baratheon:「Yes , yes . Enough of the bloody pomp . Have at it !」
Petyr Baelish:「Not what you were expecting ? Has anyone ever told you the story of the Mountain and the Hound ? Lovely little tale of brotherly love . The Hound was just a pup , six years old maybe . Gregor a few years older , already a big lad , already getting a bit of a reputation . Some lucky boys just born with a talent for violence . One evening ... Gregor found his little brother playing with a toy by the fire ... Gregor 's toy , a wooden knight . Gregor never said a word , he just grabbed his brother by the scruff of his neck and shoved his face into the burning coals . Held him there while the boy screamed , while his face melted . There are n't very many people who know that story .」
Sansa Stark:「I wo n't tell anyone . I promise .」

Petyr Baelish:「No , please do n't . If the Hound so much as heard you mention it , I 'm afraid all the knights in King 's Landing would not be able to save you .」
Jory Cassel:「My Lord , Her Grace the Queen .」
Eddard Stark:「Your Grace .」
Cersei Baratheon:「You 're missing your tournament .」
Eddard Stark:「Putting my name on it does n't make it mine .」
Cersei Baratheon:「I thought we might put what happened on the Kingsroad behind us - the ugliness with the wolves . And forcing you to kill the beast was extreme . Though sometimes we go to extremes where our children are concerned . How is Sansa ?」
Eddard Stark:「She likes it here .」
Cersei Baratheon:「The only Stark who does . Favors her mother , not much of the north in her .」
Eddard Stark:「What are you doing here ?」
Cersei Baratheon:「I might ask the same of you . What is it you hope to accomplish ?」
Eddard Stark:「The King called on me to serve him and the realm , and that 's what I 'll do until he tells me otherwise .」
Cersei Baratheon:「You ca n't change him . You ca n't help him . He 'll do what he wants , which is all he 's ever done . You 'll try your best to pick up the pieces .」
Eddard Stark:「If that 's my job , then so be it .」
Cersei Baratheon:「You 're just a soldier , are n't you ? You take your orders and you carry on . I suppose it makes sense . Your older brother was trained to lead and you were trained to follow .」
Eddard Stark:「I was also trained to kill my enemies , Your Grace .」
Cersei Baratheon:「As was I.」
Marillion:「Seven blessings to you , goodfolk !」
Catelyn Stark:「And to you .」
Rodrick Cassel:「Boy ! Bread , meat and beer , quickly .」
Marillion:「Good idea , grandfather . I 'm starving . A song while we wait or ?」
Rodrick Cassel:「I 'd rather throw myself down a well .」
Marillion:「Grandfather , may be your last chance if you 're heading north . The only music the northerners know is the howling of wolves !」
Masha Heddle:「I 'm sorry , my Lord , we 're full up . Every room .」
Tyrion Lannister:「My men can sleep in the stable . As for myself , I do n't require a large room .」

Masha Heddle:「Truly , my lord , we have nothing .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Is there nothing I can do ... to remedy this ?」
Bronn:「You can have my room .」
Tyrion Lannister:「There 's a clever man . You can manage food , I trust ? Yoren , dine with me .」
Yoren:「Aye , my Lord .」
Marillion:「My Lord of Lannister ! Might I entertain you while you eat ? I can sing of your father 's victory at King 's Landing !」
Tyrion Lannister:「Nothing would more likely ruin my supper . Lady Stark ! What an unexpected pleasure . I was sorry to have missed you at Winterfell .」
Masha Heddle:「Lady Stark .」
Catelyn Stark:「I was still Catelyn Tully the last time I stayed here . You , Ser ... Is that the black bat of Harrenhal I see embroidered on your coat ?」
Knight of House Whent:「It is , my Lady .」
Catelyn Stark:「And is Lady Whent a true and honest friend to my father ... Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun ?」
Knight of House Whent:「She is .」

Catelyn Stark:「The Red Stallion was always a welcome sight at Riverrun . My father counts Jonas Bracken amongst his oldest and most loyal bannermen .」
Knight of House Bracken:「Our lord is honored by his trust .」
Tyrion Lannister:「I envy your father all his fine friends ... but I do n't quite see the purpose of this .」

narration:Camera pans down to to show Ned Stark , sleeping . He opens his eyes . He 's lying on a bed . He turns his head to see Cersei and Robert in front of him
Eddard Stark:「Your pardon , your Grace . I would rise , but ...」
Cersei Baratheon:「Do you know what your wife has done ?」
Eddard Stark:「She did nothing I did not command .」
Robert Baratheon:「Who 'd have thought she had it in her ?」
Cersei Baratheon:「By what right dare you lay hands on my blood ?」
Eddard Stark:「I am the King 's Hand , charged with keeping the peace ...」
Cersei Baratheon:「You were the King 's Hand . You shall now be held accountable .」
Robert Baratheon:「Will both of you shut your mouths ? ! Catelyn will release Tyrion and you 'll make your peace with Jaime .」
Eddard Stark:「He butchered my men ...」
Cersei Baratheon:「Lord Stark was returning drunk from a brothel when his men attacked Jaime .」
Robert Baratheon:「Quiet , woman .」
Eddard Stark:「Jaime has fled the city . Give me leave to bring him back to justice .」
narration:Robert stares at Ned
Cersei Baratheon:「I took you for a King .」
Robert Baratheon:「Hold your tongue .」
Cersei Baratheon:「He 's attacked one of my brothers and abducted the other . I should wear the armor and you the gown .」
narration:Robert slaps her
Cercei:「I shall wear this like a badge of honor .」
Robert Baratheon:「Wear it in silence or I 'll honor you again .」
narration:Cersei looks at Ned , back at Robert , then leaves the room
Robert Baratheon:「See what she does to me ? ( pours wine from a goblet into a cup ) My loving wife . I should not have hit her.(sits down on the bed , facing away from Ned ) . That was not ... That was not Kingly . ( drinks the wine )」
Eddard Stark:「If we do n't act , there will be a war .」
Robert Baratheon:「So tell your wife to return that little sh1 t of an Imp to King 's Landing . She 's had her fun , now put an end to it . You hear me ? Send a raven and put an end to it .」
Eddard Stark:「And what about Jaime Lannister ?」
narration:Robert grimaces
Eddard Stark:「What about Jaime ?」
Robert Baratheon:「I 'm half a Kingdom in debt to his bloody father ! I do n't know what happened between you and those yellow - haired sh1ts . I do n't want to know . This is what matters ... I ca n't rule the Kingdoms if the Starks and the Lannisters are at each other 's throats . So enough .」

Eddard Stark:「As you command , your Grace . With your leave , I will return to Winterfell and set matters straight .」
Robert Baratheon:「Piss on that . Send a raven . I want you to stay . I 'm the King . I get what I want .... I never loved my brothers . A sad thing for a man to admit , but it 's true . You were the brother I chose . ( he looks back at Ned . He stands up ) We 'll talk when I return from the hunt.(he throws the ' hand 's badge ' at him )」
Eddard Stark:「The hunt ?」
narration:Robert starts walk towards the door
Robert Baratheon:「Killing things clears my head . ( at the door ) You 'll have to sit on the throne while I 'm away . You 'll hate it more than I do .」
Eddard Stark:「The Targaryen girl ...」
Robert Baratheon:「( opens the door ) Seven hells ! do n't start with her again . The girl will die and I 'll hear no more of it . Put on the badge . And if you ever take it off again , I swear to the Mother I 'll pin the damned thing on Jaime Lannister . ( exits . the door closes ) ( Ned picks up the badge the badge )」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 [ A DRAGON EGG ]
 The camera moves up to show Daenerys holding it , in a hut , sitting down . She stands up and walks towards a pot with rocks and fire burning beneath them . She places the egg on the rocks . She kneels down and stares at it . Irri enters the room holding a basket . She stands at the door and looks at Daenerys
Irri:「Khaleesi ?」
narration:Daenerys picks the egg up . Irri drops the basket and runs to her
 Khaleesi !
 she takes the egg from Daenerys and throws it to the floor . She turns Daenerys ' hands to reveal her palms , unburnt . She looks at daenerys , unbelieving
 Daenerys turns Irri 's hands to reveal her palms red
Daenerys Targaryen:「You 're hurt .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 [ WINTERFELL ]
 A raven , sitting on wood , crows . The camera turns to Brandon Stark , aiming a bow at it . He lowers the bow and the raven flies away . He follows it . He follows the raven into a candle lit archway leading to the crypts . The raven lands on a wolf statue leading to the crypts and crows . He stares at it . It flies away , into the crypts . The scene changes to brans bedroom . The camera moves into bran , sleeping on the bed . The door opens . Bran wakes , and sits up to see Hodor , smiling , holding a saddle . Bran smiles as Hodor nods to the saddle .
( Woods:「Bran is riding a horse )」
Brandon Stark:「Woohoo !」
Robb Stark:「Not too fast .」
Brandon Stark:「Come on , Dancer .」

Theon Greyjoy:「When are you gon na tell him ?」
narration:Theon and Robb are sitting on a bench
 Bran rides Dancer round , circling them
Robb Stark:「Not now .」
Theon Greyjoy:「Blood for blood .」
Brandon Stark:「Come on ! ( he keeps riding )」
Theon Greyjoy:「You need to make the Lannisters pay for Jory and the others .」
Robb Stark:「You 're talking about war .」
Bran:「Woooohoo !」
Theon Greyjoy:「I 'm talking about justice .」
Robb Stark:「Only the Lord of Winterfell can call in the bannermen and raise an army .」
Theon Greyjoy:「A Lannister put his spear through your father 's leg . The Kingslayer rides for Casterly Rock where no one can touch him ...」
Bran:「Woohoo !」
Robb Stark:「You want me to march on Casterly Rock ?」
Theon Greyjoy:「You 're not a boy anymore . They attacked your father . They 've already started the war . It 's your duty to represent your House when your father ca n't .」
Bran:「Come on , Dancer .」
Robb Stark:「And it 's not your duty , because it 's not your House.(he looks around . he stands up ) Where 's Bran ? Theon Greyjoy」
narration:Away from Robb and Theon , Bran rides Dancer , slowly , deeper in the woods . He hears a sound and turns his head looking for what it is . A woman moves behind some shrubs , not far from him . He turns his head again , trying to spot something . She comes out from behind him , with three men . They aproach him .
Brandon Stark:「Robb ?」
narration:they encircle him
Osha:「All alone in the deep , dark woods .」
narration:Bran looks around
Brandon Stark:「I 'm not alone . My brother is with me .」
Wildling 1:「I do n't see him . Got him hidden under your cloak ?」
Osha:「That 's a pretty pin . Silver .」
narration:Bran holds the pin on his chest
Wildling 1:「We 'll take the pin and the horse . ( he brushes the back of the horse 's neck ) Get down . Be quick about it .」
Brandon Stark:「I ca n't . ( he looks down at his legs ) The saddle ... the straps .」
narration:the second wildling moves Bran 's cloak to reveal straps on his leg
Wildling 1:「What 's wrong with you ? You some kind of cripple ?」
Brandon Stark:「I 'm Brandon Stark of Winterfell ! If you do n't let me be , I 'll have you all killed !」
narration:' The First ' wildling draws a knife and starts cutting the straps
Wildling 2:「Cut his little cock off and stuff it in his mouth .」

Osha:「The boy 's worth nothing dead . ( The First keeps cutting the straps ) Benjen Stark 's own blood ? Think , what Mance would give us .」
Wildling 1:「( he stops cutting ) Piss on Mance Rayder , and piss on the North . We 're going as far South as South goes . There ai n't no White Walkers down in Dorne .」
narration:Robert comes up behind them , holding a sword
Robb Stark:「Drop the knife . Let him go and I 'll let you live .」
Wildling 1:「( spits at Robb 's direction )」
narration:the second wildling runs towards him holding an ax . He swings at Robb from the side , who ducks , and drives it up from below , missing . He turns around , with the ax in the air , and drives it down to meet Robb 's sword . Robb pivets his sword , pulling the wildling closer , Robb 's sword taking the wilding ax with it , then swings his sword , driving it through the wildings throat , slitting it . Osha come up from behind and hits Robb 's back with a broad stick . Robb turns , strikes the stick to the ground , causing her to slip , and pulls her to his side , holding her hair . A third wildling runs up to him with a sword . Robb strikes the blade away and shuves his sword through the wildling 's stomoach . The First pulls Bran from the horse to the ground . He holds his knife to his throat .
Brandon Stark:「Robb ! Robb !」
Wildling 1:「( he looks down at Bran ) Shut up ! ( he looks up at Robb ) Drop the blade !」
Brandon Stark:「No , do n't .」
Wildling 1:「Do it .」
narration:Robb and The First stare at each other . Robb slowly places the blade on the ground
 THROBB
Wildling 1:「(gasps ) ( an arrow has pierced his chest . He fall down to reveal theon holding an arrow behind him )」
narration:Theon Greyjoy comes up from behind . He draws another arrow , walking towards Robb , and points it at Osha
 Robb un - grips Osha 's hair and goes to bran . Theon walks up to Osha and stops a foot away , with his arrow still pointing at her
Robb Stark:「Are you all right ?」
Brandon Stark:「Yes . It does n't hurt .」
Theon Greyjoy:「Tough little lad . In the Iron Islands , you 're not a man until you 've killed your first enemy . Well done .」
Robb Stark:「Have you lost your mind ? What if you 'd missed ?」
Theon Greyjoy:「He would have killed you and cut Bran 's throat .」
Robb Stark:「You do n't have the right ...」
Theon Greyjoy:「To what , to save your brother 's life ? It was the only thing to do , so I did it .」
Robb Stark:「What about her ?」

Osha:「Give me my life , my Lord , and I 'm yours(she begs with her hands together )」
Robb Stark:「We 'll keep her alive .」
narration:she sighs a cry of joy
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 [ THE VALE OF ARRYN - SKY CELLS ]
 Tyrion 's backside . He awakens and turns , rolling down , towards the edge of the steep floor . he stops , looking down at the misty atmosphere below . he backs away and stands up , goes towards the door .
Tyrion Lannister:「Mord ! ( he bangs at the door ) Turnkey ! Mord !」
narration:the sound of a key turning and a door opening . Then Tyrion 's door opens . Mord comes in .
Mord:「Dwarf man making noise ! ( he hits Tyrion , making him back away ' till his back is against the wall . )」
Tyrion Lannister:「How would you like to be rich ?」
Mord:「( he hits tyrion again ) Dwarf man still making noise .」
Tyrion Lannister:「My family is rich . We have gold , lots of gold . I 'm prepared to give you lots of gold in ...」
narration:Mord searhes Tyrion 's pockets

Mord:「No gold !」
Tyrion Lannister:「Well , I do n't have it here .」
Mord:「( he hits him again ) No gold . f*ck off .」
narration:Mord walks away , out of the cell , closes then locks the door . Tyrion walks away from the wall and looks at the outside of the cell
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 [ KINGS LANDING - TRAINING ROOM ]
 Syrio closes the door and turns , with two wooden swords in hand , to walk up to Arya . He throws one at Arya , who catches it , and makes a dancing stance , a foot away from her
Arya Stark:「I do n't want to practice today .」
Syrio Forel:「( gets out of the stance ) No ?」
Arya Stark:「They killed Jory . My father is hurt . I do n't care about stupid wooden swords .」
Syrio Forel:「( he walks towards her ) You are troubled .」
Arya Stark:「Yes .」
Syrio Forel:「( he rattles his sword close to her face ) Good ! Trouble is the perfect time for training . When you are dancing in the meadow with your dolls and kittens , this is not when fighting happens .」

Arya Stark:「I do n't like dolls and k ... (he swipes her arm with his sword )」
Syrio Forel:「You 're not here . You 're with your trouble . If you are with your trouble when fighting happens ...」
narration:he steps back as she advances . She parries , then he turns , around her sword , to be right in front of her , causing her to fall
Syrio:「More trouble for you . Just so . How can you be quick as a snake ... ( they fight , as she stands up ) Or as quiet as a shadow ... ( their swords meet again . Syrio disarms her by taking her sword with his hand and quickly turns to place his , and her sword , at her neck ) When you are somewhere else ? ( he removes the swords and holds them in one hand . He places his hand on her shoulder ) You are fearing for your father . ( she nods ) That is right . Do you pray to the Gods ?」
Arya Stark:「The old and the new .」
Syrio Forel:「There is only one God and his name is Death . And there is only one thing we say to Death ( he lifts her head up with his finger on her chin )」
narration:he steps back and makes a dancing stance . Arya takes a step back as he advances
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 [ VAES DOTHRAK - TENT ]
 A heart is held . Dothraki chant as Dany sinks her teeth in , bites a chunk out , and chews it .
Viserys Targaryen:「She has to eat the whole heart ? ( Viserys is standing amidst the dothraki crowd with Jorah ) I hope that was n't my horse .」
narration:Dany continues to eat , kneeling on a wooden platform . A priestess in front of her sings in dothraki , moving her arms in the air
Jorah Mormont:「She 's doing well .」
narration:Khal Drogo looks at Daenerys , a few feet away in front . She rips a chunk out and Drogo nods
Viserys Targaryen:「She 'll never keep it down . ( the priestess sings louder ) Tell me what she 's saying .」
Jorah Mormont:「" The prince is riding . I have heard the thunder of his hooves . Swift as the wind he rides . His enemies will cower before him ... And their wives will weep tears of blood . " She 's going to have a boy .」
Viserys Targaryen:「He wo n't be a real Targaryen . He wo n't be a true Dragon .」
narration:Dany eats the last chunk of the heart as the Priestess continues to sing . Dany chokes and drops , one hand on the ground , the other on her mouth . She vomits . Then pushes the bits back into her mouth . Gasping , she lifts herself back to her knees . She swallows the heart . Drogo smiles at her
 the priestess speaks in dothraki

Jorah Mormont:「" The stallion who mounts the world . The stallion is the Khal of Khals . He shall unite the people into a single Khalasar . All the people of the world will be his herd " .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「( she stands up and speaks in dothraki ) A Prince rides inside me ! And he shall be called Rhaegol !」
narration:The Khallasar chants " Rhaegol ! Rhaegol ! Rhaegol ! Rhaegol ! .... "
Viserys Targaryen:「They love her .」
narration:Drogo walks to her and lifts her up , his arms wrapped around her waist , and carries her around the platform . the crowd moves forward , encircling Dany . " Rhaegol ! Rhaegol ! Rhaegol ! Rhaegol ! ...... " , the khalasar chants as the priestess screams
Jorah Mormont:「She truly is a queen today . ( he looks beside him , no one )」
narration:" Rhaegol ! " Rhaegol ! " Rhaegol ! " Rhaegol ! " Rhaegol ! " Rhaegol ! ......
( A tent:「Someone opens a chest . Inside , three dragon eggs . Viserys looks at them . Kneeling down , he heaves a sigh . Then puts one inside a bag . As he reaches for the second , someone enters the tent . He stands up , a quarter of his sword unsheathed , and turns . He sees Jorah )」
Jorah Mormont:「Do n't let them see you carrying a sword in Vaes Dothrak . You know the law .」
Viserys Targaryen:「( sheaths his sword ) It 's not my law.(turns and puts another egg in the bag )」
Jorah Mormont:「They do n't belong to you .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Whatever is hers is also mine . ( and another )」
Jorah Mormont:「Once , perhaps .」
narration:Viserys stares at the bag . He turns to Jorah
Viserys Targaryen:「If I sell one egg , I 'll have enough to buy a ship . Two eggs ... a ship and an army .」
Jorah Mormont:「And you have all three .」

Viserys Targaryen:「I need a large army . ( takes a step closer holding the bag ) I 'm the last hope of a dynasty , Mormont . The greatest dynasty this world has ever seen on my shoulders since I was five years old ... And no one has ever given me what they gave to her in that tent . Never . Not a piece of it . How can I carry what I need to carry without it ? Who can rule without wealth or fear or love ? ( smiles , walking up to him ) You stand there , all nobility and honor . ( a foot away ) You do n't think I see you looking at my little sister ? Do n't think I know what you want ? . ... ( they stare at each other ) ... I do n't care . You can have her . She can be Queen of the savages , and dine on the finest bloody horseparts , and you can dine on whichever parts of her you like . But let me go(stepping aside . Jorah steps to him )」
Jorah Mormont:「You can go . You ca n't have the eggs .」
Viserys Targaryen:「You swore an oath to me . Does loyalty mean nothing to you ?」
Jorah Mormont:「It means everything to me .」
Viserys Targaryen:「And yet here you stand .」
Jorah Mormont:「And yet here I stand .」
narration:Viserys stares at Jorah with anger . He drops the bag . Jorah steps aside as Viserys stares at him . Viserys then leaves the tent
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 [ THE VALE - SKY CELLS ]
 Tyrion 's hands are against the door
Tyrion Lannister:「Mord ! . ..... Mord ! . ..... Mord ! . ..... ( he kicks the door , once , twice , thrice ) .... Mord !」

narration:as the door opens , Tyrion backs away . Mord enters , holding a stick , and hits Tyrion , causing him to fall
Mord:「( above Tyrion ) Noise again !」
Tyrion Lannister:「. ... About the gold ...」
Mord:「( hits Tyrion ) No gold ! ( waving the stick at him ) No gold .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Listen to me ! Listen to me ... Sometimes possession is an abstract concept ... (gets hit on the arm by Mord ) When they captured me they took my purse , but the gold is still mine .」
Mord:「( pointing the stick ) Where ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Where ? I do n't know where ( gets hit on his leg ) , but when they free me ...」
Mord:「You want free ? ( points his stick at the outside ) Go be free .」

Tyrion Lannister:「Have you ever heard the phrase " Rich as a Lannister " ? ( Mord looks at him , interested ) Of course you have ! You 're a smart man . You know who the Lannisters are . I am a Lannister . Tyrion , son of Tywin ! And of course , you have also heard the phrase , " A Lannister always pays his debts . " If you deliver a message from me ( starts to stand , causing Mord to raise his stick ) ... to Lady Arryn , I will be in your debt . I will owe you gold . If you deliver the message and I live , which I very much intend to do . Mord( he stands up , Mord raises his stick up again , and takes a step back ) Tell her I wish to confess my crimes .」
( Court:「Metal knocking on wood . Catelyn turns her eyes to looks at Lord Robyn , hitting his armrest with his ring seated next to Lysa )」
Lysa Arryn:「( to Tyrion ) You wish to confess your crimes ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Yes my Lady . I do , my Lady .」
narration:Tyrion 's looking up at Lysa , who 's sitting high above at an elevated level

Lysa Arryn:「( turns to Catelyn , who 's standing next to Robyn ) The sky cells always break them . ( turns to Tyrion ) Speak , Imp . Meet your Gods as an honest man .」
narration:Tyrion looks around at the people gathered
Tyrion Lannister:「Where do I begin , my Lords and Ladies ? I 'm a vile man , I confess it . My crimes and sins are beyond counting . I have lied and cheated , gambled and whored . I 'm not particularly good at violence , ( Catelyn looks on ) but I 'm good at convincing others to do violence for me . ( Bronn looks on , aside a pillar , secluded from the crowd ) You want specifics , I suppose . When I was seven , I saw a servant girl bathing in the river . I stole her robe . She was forced to return to the castle naked and in tears . ( eyes closed ) If I close my eyes , I can still see her tits bouncing . ( the members of court murmur , Bronn smiles , and Tyrion opens his eyes ) When I was 10 , I stuffed my Uncle 's boots with goatshit . When confronted with my crime , I blamed a squire . Poor boy was flogged and I escaped justice(Bronn keeps smiling ) . When I was 12 , I milked my eel into a pot of turtle stew . ( the crowd gasps , outraged . Bronn lightly chuckles ) I flogged the one - eyed snake . ( chuckles and gasps sound in the air ) I skinned my sausage . I made the bald man cry .... (he rattles his chains , shaking his hand below his belly ) into the turtle stew , which I do believe my sister ate , at least I hope she did . I once brought a jackass and a honeycomb into a brothel ...」

Lysa Arryn:「( stands ) Silence !」
Robin Arryn:「What happened next ?」
Lysa Arryn:「What do you think you 're doing ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Confessing my crimes .」
Catelyn Stark:「Lord Tyrion , You are accused of hiring a man to slay my son Bran in his bed , and of conspiring to murder my sister 's husband Lord Jon Arryn , the Hand of the King .」
Tyrion Lannister:「I 'm very sorry . I do n't know anything about all that .」
Lysa Arryn:「You 've had your little joke . I trust you enjoyed it . Mord ! ( Mord steps forward ) Take him back to the dungeon . But this time find a smaller cell , with a steeper floor .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Is this how justice is done in the Vale ? ( Mord steps back , smiling at Tyrion ) You accuse me of crimes , ( looking around at the court members ) I deny them , so you throw me into a cell to freeze and starve ? Where is the King 's justice ? ( looks at Lysa ) I am accused and demand a trial !」
narration:Catelyn looks at Lysa

Lysa Arryn:「( looks at the crowd , then back at Tyrion ) If you 're tried and found guilty , then by the King 's own laws you will pay with your life .」
Tyrion Lannister:「I understand the law .」
Lysa Arryn:「We have no executioner in the Eyrie . Life is more elegant here . ( turns her head to her left ) Open the Moon Door .」
narration:two men walk to a wheel and turn it
 Robyn giggles as a round door on the ground , a foot away from Tyrion , opens
Lysa Arryn:「You want a trial , my Lord Lannister . Very well . My son will listen to whatever you have to say , and you will hear his judgment . Then you will leave ... By one door or the other .」
Tyrion Lannister:「No need to bother Lord Robin . I demand a trial by combat .」
narration:the members start to laugh . Lysa looks at the members , uncertain . She turns to Catelyn , who looks back worried . She then turns back to Tyrion
Lysa Arryn:「You have that right .」
narration:a knight from the crowd approaches
Knight 1:「I beg the honor . Let me be your champion .」

Knight 2:「The honor should be mine.(standing amongs the member of court ) For the love I bore your Lord husband , let me avenge his death .」
Knight 3:「I 'll fight for you.(from the crowd )」
Knight 4:「It 'll be my honor.(from the crowd )」
Knight 5:「The honor should be mine.(from the crowd )」
Robin Arryn:「Make the bad man fly !」
Lysa Arryn:「( to a knight , standing behind Tyrion ) Ser Vardis ... You 're quiet . Do n't you want to avenge my husband ?」
Vardis Egan:「( steps forward ) With all my heart , my Lady ( he kneels . Catelyn looks at him ) But the Imp is half my size . It would be shameful to slaughter such a man and call it justice .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Agreed .」
Lysa Arryn:「You demanded a trial by combat .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Now I demand a champion . I have that right , same as you .」
Vardis Egan:「( stands ) I will gladly fight the Imp 's champion , for you .」

Tyrion Lannister:「I would n't be too glad , Ser . I name my brother Jaime Lannister .」
narration:whispers sound amongst the members
Lysa Arryn:「The Kingslayer is hundreds of miles from here .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Send a raven for him . I 'm happy to wait .」
Lysa Arryn:「( shakes her head ) The trial will be today .」
Tyrion Lannister:「( turns around ) Do I have a volunteer ? ( members chuckle ) Anyone ? ( Robyn giggles ) Anyone ? ( Robyn giggles as the members continue chuckle . Tyrion turns to Lysa )」
Lysa Arryn:「I think we can assume that no one is willing ...」
Bronn:「I 'll stand for the dwarf .」
narration:Catelyn and Lysa look at Bronn . Tyrion turns to Bronn , smiling . Bronn shrugs at him
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 [ THE KINGSWOOD ]
 Robert , Lancel , Renly , and Selmy walk through the forest . Robert in front , holding a spear , lancel just behind him , holding wine , Renly behind Lancel , also holding a spear , and Selmy behind Renly .

Lancel Lannister:「( Walks up to Robert ) More wine , your Grace ?」
narration:they all stop walking as Robert takes the wineskin from Lancel and takes a chug . He gives it back and they resume walking . Lancel steps back to be between Renly and Selmy
Robert Baratheon:「Now , what was I saying ?」
Renly Baratheon:「A simpler time .」
Robert Baratheon:「It was . It was . You 're too young to remember . Was n't it simpler , Selmy ?」
Barristan Selmy:「It was , your Grace .」
Robert Baratheon:「The enemy was right in the open , vicious as you like , all but sending you a bloody invitation . Nothing like today .」
Renly Baratheon:「It sounds exhilarating .」
Robert Baratheon:「Exhilarating , yes . Not as exhilarating as those balls and masquerades you like to throw ( starts a hearty laugh as Renly swallows his irritation ) ( They continue to walk , deeper in the woods ) You ever f*ck a Riverlands girl ?」
Renly Baratheon:「Once . I think .」
Robert Baratheon:「You think ? I think you 'd remember . Back in our day , you were n't a real man until you 'd f*cked one girl from each of the Seven Kingdoms and the Riverlands . We used to call it " making the eight . "」
narration:Selmy moves up to be infront of Lancel
Renly Baratheon:「Those were some lucky girls .」
Robert Baratheon:「You ever make the eight , Barristan ?」
Barristan Selmy:「I do n't believe so , your Grace .」
Robert Baratheon:「Those were the days .」
Renly Baratheon:「Which days , exactly ? ( renly stops walking and Robert turns to him ) The ones where half of Westeros fought the other half and millions died ? ( the rest of the party stop as well ) Or before that , when the Mad King slaughtered women and babies because the voices in his head told him they deserved it ? Or way before that , when dragons burned whole cities to the ground ? !」
Robert Baratheon:「Easy , boy . You might be my brother , but you 're speaking to the King .」
Renly Baratheon:「I suppose it was all rather heroic ... If you were drunk enough and had some poor Riverlands whore to shove your prick inside and make the eight . ( he slaps his spear to his other hand and walks off in anger . Robert looks at him . Lancel walks to Robert )」
Lancel Lannister:「More wine , your Grace ?」

narration:Robert grabs the wine and takes a long swig from it . He shoves it at Lancel 's chest and walks away . Lancel looks back at Selmy and then follows Robert . Selmy looks on at Lancel as he resumes walking
 [SCENE_BREAK]
 [ KINGS LANDING - THRONE ROOM ]
 A person 's back is seen some feet away from the Iron Chair . Ned Stark is seated on the Iron Chair , with grand maester Pycelle seated on a chair to his left and Petyr Baelish to his right , sitting on a chair with a feather and papers on his lap
Farmer:「They burned most everything in the Riverlands ( A Farmer , standing some feet away from Ned )」
Maester Pycelle:「Brigands , most likely .」
Farmer:「They were n't thieves . They did n't steal nothing . ( one of the farmers shakes his head ) They even left something behind , your Grace .」
Maester Pycelle:「It 's the King 's Hand you 're addressing , ( Ned looks at him ) not the King . The King is hunting .」
narration:the farmer throws a sack to the floor and lifts it from the bottom side . Fish fall out
 people at court murmur and exlaim , appalled
Petyr Baelish:「Fish . The Sigil of House Tully . ( he leans his head towards Ned Stark and whispers ) Is n't that your wife 's house ... Tully , my Lord Hand ?」
Eddard Stark:「( to the farmer ) These men , were they flying a Sigil ? A banner ?」
Farmer:「None , your ... Hand . The one who was leading them ... Taller by a foot than any man I 've ever met , saw him cut the blacksmith in two , saw him take the head off a horse with a single swing of his sword .」
Petyr Baelish:「( still leaning ) That sounds like someone we know . The Mountain .」
Eddard Stark:「( to the farmer ) You 're describing Ser Gregor Clegane .」
Maester Pycelle:「Why should Ser Gregor turn brigand ? The man is an anointed knight .」
Petyr Baelish:「( to Pycelle ) I 've heard him called Tywin Lannister 's mad dog . I 'm sure you have as well . ( to Ned , voice lowered ) Can you think of any reason the Lannisters might possibly have for being angry with your wife ? ( he stares at Ned , who stares back . Ned turnes back to the farmer )」
Maester Pycelle:「If the Lannisters were to order attacks on villages under the King 's protection , it would be ...」
Petyr Baelish:「That would be almost as brazen as attacking the Hand of the King in the streets of the capital.(Pycelle mumbles to himself . Petyr and Ned exchange stares . Ned turns to the farmer )」

Eddard Stark:「I can not give you back your homes or restore your dead to life , but perhaps I can give you justice , in the name of our King , Robert . Lord Beric Dondarrion . ( Berric steps forward from the crowd ) ( to Berric ) You shall have the command . Assemble 100 men and ride to Ser Gregor 's keep .」
Beric Dondarrion:「As you command .」
narration:Ned stands with his stick , slightly struggling .
Eddard Stark:「( to Berric ) In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon , the first of his name , King of the Andals and the first men , Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and protector of the realm , I charge you to bring the King 's justice to the false knight Gregor Clegane and all those who shared in his crimes . I denounce him and attaint him . ( gasps , murmurs , and voices of outrage sound at court ) I strip him of all ranks and titles , of all lands and holdings , and sentence him to death .」
Maester Pycelle:「( stands up , outraged ) My Lord . This is a drastic action . It would be better to wait for King Robert 's return .」
Eddard Stark:「Grand Maester Pycelle .」
Maester Pycelle:「My Lord .」
Eddard Stark:「Send a raven to Casterly Rock . Inform Tywin Lannister that he has been summoned to Court to answer for the crimes of his bannermen . He will arrive within the fortnight or be branded an enemy of the crown and a traitor to the realm .」
narration:Ned leaves Pycelle standing . Petyr puts the quill in his book , leaves them on the chair , and follows Ned . He walks with Ned , who 's taking steps down from the Throne Stand
Petyr Baelish:「( to Ned , voice lowered ) A bold move , my Lord , and admirable . But is it wise to yank the lion 's tail ? Tywin Lannister is the richest man in all the Seven Kingdoms . ( He stops walking ) ( voice raised ) Gold wins wars , not soldiers .」
Eddard Stark:「( walking on the Throne Room floor ) Then how come Robert is King and not Tywin Lannister ? ( walks away )」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
 [ The Vale of Arryn - Court ]
 A wheel is being turned by two men . As they turn it , the Moon Door opens . They stop turning , and mist hovers below the door . Ser Vadis loweres his helm as a servant gives Bronn , who 's holding a sword , a shield . Ser Vadis grabs a shield from a servant as well . They stand a few feet away from each other , as Tyrion looks at Bronn . Catelyn looks on at them from above , beside Lysa and Robyn
Robyn Arryn:「( Lord Robyn stands and signals with the throw of his fist ) Fight !」

narration:Bronn and Vadis walk towards each other and their swords meet In the air . Ser Vadis swings as Bronn evades . Ser Vadis continues to attack , leading Bronn towards a wall . Bronn strikes away Vadis ' attacks as he backs away up some steps . Vadis Drive his sword down above Bronn , who jumps over small pillars lining the steps , bearly missing Vadis ' steel
Lysa Arryn:「Stand and fight , coward !」
narration:Bronn kicks a stand with lit candles on top of it towards Vadis . Vadis steps over it and walks to Bronn . He swings as Bronn ducks . Again , this time their swords meet . Bronn deflects Vadis ' blade . Again , from above , Vadis drives his sword down to lock with Bronn 's in the air . Vadis pushes Bronn towards the Moon Door . Bronn tries to push back as the lock his sword has starts to dwindle . He manages to break the lock and push Ser Vadis away . Ser Vadis lunges again and Bronn keeps striking away , as he keeps backing away from him . Vadis lunges at Bronn , who moves away , causing Vadis to collide with a wall with his shoulder . Bronn pushes a man at Vadis , who moves the man away . As the men and women at court move away from the fight , Vadis continues to attack Bronn . As he strikes , Bronn ducks and quickly gets his sword between Vadis ' shield and side , slicing him , draws it back and steps away . Lysa gasps
Tyrion Lannister:「Yes ! ( Catelyn looks at Tyrion , who pushes his lower lip with his tongue from the inside )」

narration:Vadis lifts his helm , panting
Lysa Arryn:「( to Vadis ) Enough , Ser Vardis ! Finish him ! ( she looks at Tyrion , who returns the glare . Vadis looks at Lysa , then Bronn . He lowers his helm , and they resume fighting )」
narration:Bronn ducks Vadis ' attacks . Vadis advances and swings his swords at Bronn , who strikes it . Vadis ' drives his shield down at Bonn and Bronn hits it , turns and drives his swords up Vadis ' back , who yells and falls to his knees . Tyrion grins . Vadis slumpers up and runs at Bronn , who trips him with his foot , and falls down beside the Moon Door . Bronn kicks away Vadis ' shield . On his knees , Vadis lifts his sword and Bronn holds up high the arm that holds it . He positions his sword high in the air and looks at Lysa . Cries of " No ! " echo in the court . Lysa looks , shocked , as Catelyn closes her eyes . He drives his sword through , between Vadis ' helmet and chest . People gasp , as blood pours down Vadis ' neck . Bronn throws Vadis ' arm into the Moon Door , Vadis ' body with it .
Robin Arryn:「( smiling ) ( to Lysa ) Is it over ?」
narration:Lysa stares at the mist below the Moon Door . She looks up to Bronn , angry
Lysa Arryn:「You do n't fight with honor !」
Bronn:「No . ( He looks at the Moon Door , points , and looks back at Lysa ) He did .」
narration:Tyrion walks to Mord , who unshackles him . He walks towards Rodrick
Robin Arryn:「(to Lysa ) Can I make the little man fly now ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Not this little man . This little man is going home . ( he stops a foot away from an elevated level overlooking him , where Rodrick is standing amongst members of the court ) ( looking up to Rodrick ) I believe you have something of mine .」

narration:Rodrick turns to Catelyn , standing some feet away . She nods at him . He takes a bag out of his pocket and throws it at Tyrion . As Tyrion catches it , coins rattle from inside . He bows to Lysa as he steps back and walks away . Bronn nods to Lysa and walks to Tyrion , who throws the bag to Mord . Bronn and Tyrion walk to the doors , which the guards in front open , and leave court ,
Tyrion Lannister:「A Lannister always pays his debts . ( walking away , as Mord smiles while looking at the bag . The doors behind Tyrion close )」

narration:Still not far from Pentos , Your Grace . You 'd be more comfortable there . I have no interest in hospitality or comfort . I 'll stay with Drogo until he fulfills his end of the bargain and I have my crown . I have something for you .
First lesson:「Stick them with the pointy end . 17 years ago you rode off with Robert Baratheon .」
narration:And now you 're leaving again .
 I have no choice .
 There 's great honor serving in the Night 's Watch . The Starks have manned the Wall for thousands of years .
 And you are a Stark .
 Daenerys Targaryen has we d some Dothraki horselord . What of it ? Tell me we 're not speaking of this . I 'll kill every Targaryen I get my hands on . Rapers . Not impressed by your new brothers ?
 Lovely thing about the watch ...
 You discard your old family and get a whole new one . Welcome . I do n't think Bran fell from that tower . I think he was thrown . No ! Someone tried to kill him twice . I would stake my life the Lannisters are involved . Lord Stark must be told of this .
 I will go myself .
 What is the meaning of this ?
 Joff told us what happened .
 You and that boy beat him with clubs while you set your wolf on him .
 That 's not what happened !
 Ahh ! We found no trace of the direwolf , Your Grace . We have another wolf . As you will . He does n't mean Lady , does he ? Lady did n't bite anyone ! She 's good !
King 's Landing Page:「Welcome , Lord Stark . Grand Maester Pycelle has called a meeting of the Small Council . The honor of your presence is requested .」
Eddard Stark:「Get the girls settled in . I 'll be back in time for supper . And , Jory , you go with them .」
Jory Cassel:「Yes , my Lord .」
King 's Landing Page:「If you 'd like to change into something more appropriate ...」
Jaime Lannister:「Thank the gods you 're here , Stark . About time we had some stern northern leadership .」
Eddard Stark:「Glad to see you 're protecting the throne .」
Jaime Lannister:「Sturdy old thing . How many kings ' asses have polished it , I wonder ? What 's the line ? The King sh1ts and the Hand wipes .」
Eddard Stark:「Very handsome armor . Not a scratch on it .」
Jaime Lannister:「I know . People have been swinging at me for years , but they always seem to miss .」
Eddard Stark:「You 've chosen your opponents wisely then .」
Jaime Lannister:「I have a knack for it . It must be strange for you coming into this room . I was standing right here when it happened . He was very brave , your brother . Your father too . They did n't deserve to die like that . Nobody deserves to die like that .」
Eddard Stark:「But you just stood there and watched .」

Jaime Lannister:「500 men just stood there and watched . All the great knights of the Seven Kingdoms . You think anyone said a word , lifted a finger ? No , Lord Stark . 500 men and this room was silent as a crypt . Except for the screams , of course , and the Mad King laughing . And later ... When I watched the Mad King die , I remembered him laughing as your father burned ... It felt like justice .」
Eddard Stark:「Is that what you tell yourself at night ? You 're a servant of justice ? That you were avenging my father when you shoved your sword in Aerys Targaryen 's back ?」
Jaime Lannister:「Tell me ... If I 'd stabbed the Mad King in the belly instead of the back , would you admire me more ?」
Eddard Stark:「You served him well when serving was safe .」
Varys:「Lord Stark .」
Eddard Stark:「Lord Varys .」
Varys:「I was grievously sorry to hear of your troubles on the Kingsroad . We are all praying for Prince Joffrey 's full recovery .」
Eddard Stark:「A shame you did n't say a prayer for the butcher 's son . Renly ! You 're looking well .」
Renly Baratheon:「And you look tired from the road . I told them this meeting could wait another day , but ...」
Petyr Baelish:「But we have a Kingdom to look after . I 've hoped to meet you for some time , Lord Stark . No doubt Lady Catelyn has mentioned me .」
Eddard Stark:「She has , Lord Baelish . I understand you knew my brother Brandon as well .」
Petyr Baelish:「All too well . I still carry a token of his esteem from navel to collarbone .」
Eddard Stark:「Perhaps you chose the wrong man to duel with .」
Petyr Baelish:「It was n't the man that I chose , my Lord . It was Catelyn Tully . A woman worth fighting for , I 'm sure you 'll agree .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「I humbly beg your pardon , my Lord Stark .」
Eddard Stark:「Grand Maester .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「How many years has it been ? You were a young man .」
Eddard Stark:「And you served another King .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「How forgetful of me . This belongs to you , now . Should we begin ?」
Eddard Stark:「Without the King ?」
Renly Baratheon:「Winter may be coming , but I 'm afraid the same can not be said for my brother .」
Varys:「His Grace has many cares . He entrusts some small matters to us that we might lighten the load .」
Petyr Baelish:「We are the lords of small matters here .」
Renly Baratheon:「My brother instructs us to stage a tournament in honor of Lord Stark 's appointment as Hand of the King .」

Petyr Baelish:「Mmm , how much ?」
Eddard Stark:「40 000 gold dragons to the champion , 20 000 to the runner - up , 20 000 to the winning archer .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Can the treasury bear such expense ?」
Petyr Baelish:「I 'll have to borrow it . The Lannisters will accommodate , I expect . We already owe Lord Tywin 3 million gold . What 's another 80 000 ?」
Eddard Stark:「Are you telling me the Crown is three million in debt ?」
Petyr Baelish:「I 'm telling you the Crown is six million in debt .」
Eddard Stark:「How could you let this happen ?」
Petyr Baelish:「The Master of Coin finds the money . The King and the Hand spend it .」
Eddard Stark:「I will not believe Jon Arryn allowed Robert to bankrupt the realm .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Lord Arryn gave wise and prudent advice , but I fear His Grace does n't always listen .」
Renly Baratheon:「" Counting coppers , " he calls it .」
Eddard Stark:「I 'll speak to him tomorrow . This tournament is an extravagance we can not afford .」
Petyr Baelish:「As you will . But still , we 'd best make our plans .」
Eddard Stark:「There will be no plans until I speak to Robert . Forgive me , my Lords . I had a long ride .」
Varys:「You are the King 's Hand , Lord Stark , we serve at your pleasure .」
Cersei Baratheon:「Please , it 's nearly healed .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「It 's ugly .」
Cersei Baratheon:「A King should have scars , you fought off a direwolf . You 're a warrior like your father .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「I 'm not like him . I did n't fight off anything . It bit me and all I did was scream . And the two Stark girls saw it , both of them .」
Cersei Baratheon:「That 's not true . You killed the beast . You only spared the girl because of the love your father bears her father . When Aerys Targaryen sat on the Iron Throne , your father was a rebel and a traitor . Someday you 'll sit on the throne and the truth will be what you make it .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「Do I have to marry her ?」

Cersei Baratheon:「Yes . She 's very beautiful and young . If you do n't like her , you only need to see her on formal occasions and when the time comes , to make little princes and princesses . And if you 'd rather f*ck painted whores , you 'll f*ck painted whores . And if you 'd rather lie with noble virgins , so be it . You are my darling boy and the world will be exactly as you want it to be . Do something nice for the Stark girl .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「I do n't want to .」
Cersei Baratheon:「No , but you will . The occasional kindness will spare you all sorts of trouble down the road .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「We allow the northerners too much power . They consider themselves our equals .」
Cersei Baratheon:「How would you handle them ?」
Joffrey Baratheon:「I 'd double their taxes and command them to supply 10 000 men to the royal army .」
Cersei Baratheon:「A royal army ?」
Joffrey Baratheon:「Why should every lord command his own men ? It 's primitive , no better than the hill tribes . We should have a standing army of men loyal to the Crown , trained by experienced soldiers ... Instead of a mob of peasants who 've never held pikes in their lives .」
Cersei Baratheon:「And if the northerners rebel ?」
Joffrey Baratheon:「I 'd crush them . Seize Winterfell and install someone loyal to the realm as Warden of the North . Uncle Kevan , maybe .」
Cersei Baratheon:「And these 10 000 northern troops , would they fight for you or their lord ?」
Joffrey Baratheon:「For me . I 'm their King .」
Cersei Baratheon:「But you 've just invaded their homeland , asked them to kill their brothers .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「I 'm not asking .」
Cersei Baratheon:「The North can not be held ... not by an outsider . It 's too big and too wild . When the winter comes , the Seven gods together could n't save you and your royal army . A good King knows when to save his strength ... And when to destroy his enemies .」
Joffrey Baratheon:「So you agree ... The Starks are enemies ?」
Cersei Baratheon:「Everyone who is n't us is an enemy .」
Septa Mordane:「Enough of that , young lady . Eat your food .」
Arya Stark:「I 'm practicing .」
Sansa Stark:「Practicing for what ?」
Arya Stark:「The Prince .」
Septa Mordane:「Arya , stop !」
Arya Stark:「He 's a liar and a coward and he killed my friend .」
Sansa Stark:「The Hound killed your friend .」
Arya Stark:「The Hound does whatever the Prince tells him to do .」

Sansa Stark:「You 're an idiot .」
Arya Stark:「You 're a liar . And if you told the truth , Mycah would be alive .」
Septa Mordane:「Enough !」
Eddard Stark:「What 's happening here ?」
Septa Mordane:「Arya would rather act like a beast than a lady .」
Eddard Stark:「Go to your room . We 'll speak later . That 's for you , love . The same dollmaker makes all of Princess Myrcella 's toys . Do n't you like it ?」
Sansa Stark:「I have n't played with dolls since I was eight . May I be excused ?」
Septa Mordane:「You 've barely eaten a thing .」
Eddard Stark:「It 's all right . Go on . War was easier than daughters .」
Arya Stark:「Go away !」
Eddard Stark:「Arya , open the door . May I come in ? Whose sword is that ?」
Arya Stark:「Mine .」
Eddard Stark:「Give it to me . I know this maker 's mark . This is Mikken 's work . Where did you get this ? This is no toy . Little ladies should n't play with swords .」
Arya Stark:「I was n't playing . And I do n't want to be a lady .」
Eddard Stark:「Come here . Now what do you want with this ?」
Arya Stark:「It 's called Needle .」
Eddard Stark:「A blade with a name . And who were you hoping to skewer with Needle ? Your sister ? Do you know the first thing about sword fighting ?」
Arya Stark:「Stick 'em with the pointy end .」
Eddard Stark:「That 's the essence of it .」
Arya Stark:「I was trying to learn . I asked Mycah to practice with me . I asked him . It was my fault .」
Eddard Stark:「No , sweet girl . You did n't kill the butcher 's boy .」
Arya Stark:「I hate them ! I hate all of them . The Hound , the Queen and the King and Joffrey and Sansa .」
Eddard Stark:「Sansa was dragged before the King and Queen ... And asked to call the Prince a liar .」
Arya Stark:「So was I ! He is a liar .」
Eddard Stark:「Darling , listen to me . Sansa will be married to Joffrey someday . She can not betray him . She must take his side even when he 's wrong .」
Arya Stark:「But how you can let her marry someone like that ?」
Eddard Stark:「Look at me . You 're a Stark of Winterfell . You know our words .」
Arya Stark:「Winter is coming .」

Eddard Stark:「You were born in the long summer . You 've never known anything else . But now winter is truly coming . And in the winter , we must protect ourselves , look after one another . Sansa is your sister .」
Arya Stark:「I do n't hate her . Not really .」
Eddard Stark:「I do n't want to frighten you , but I wo n't lie to you either . We 've come to a dangerous place . We can not fight a war amongst ourselves . All right ? Go on . It 's yours .」
Arya Stark:「I can keep it ?」
Eddard Stark:「Try not to stab your sister with it . If you 're going to own a sword , you 'd better know how to use it .」
Old Nan:「Do n't listen to it . Crows are all liars . I know a story about a crow .」
Bran Stark:「I hate your stories .」
Old Nan:「I know a story about a boy who hated stories . I could tell you about Ser Duncan the Tall . Those were always your favorites .」
Bran Stark:「Those were n't my favorites . My favorites were the scary ones .」
Old Nan:「Oh , my sweet summer child . What do you know about fear ? Fear is for the winter , when the snows fall a hundred feet deep . Fear is for the long night , when the sun hides for years and children are born and live and die all in darkness . That is the time for fear , my little Lord , when the White Walkers move through the woods . Thousands of years ago there came a night that lasted a generation . Kings froze to death in their castles , same as the shepherds in their huts . And women smothered their babies rather than see them starve , and wept and felt the tears freeze on their cheeks . So is this the sort of story that you like ? In that darkness , the White Walkers came for the first time . They swept through cities and kingdoms , riding their dead horses , hunting with their packs of pale spiders big as hounds ...」
Robb Stark:「What are you telling him now ?」
Old Nan:「Only what the little Lord wants to hear .」
Robb Stark:「Get your supper . I want some time with him . One time she told me the sky is blue because we live inside the eye of a blue - eyed giant named Macomber .」
Bran Stark:「Maybe we do .」
Robb Stark:「How do you feel ? You still do n't remember anything ? I 've seen you climb a thousand times . In the wind , in the rain ... A thousand times . You never fall .」
Bran Stark:「I did though . It 's true , is n't it ... what Maester Luwin says about my legs ? I 'd rather be dead .」
Robb Stark:「Do n't ever say that .」
Bran Stark:「I 'd rather be dead .」
Rodrick Cassel:「Fewer eyes back here , my Lady . But still too many .」

Catelyn Stark:「It 's nine years since I 've set foot in the capital . And no one knew who I was the last time I came either .」
Rodrick Cassel:「My Lady .」
Guard:「Welcome to King 's Landing , Lady Stark . Would you mind following us ?」
Catelyn Stark:「I would . We 've done nothing wrong .」
Guard:「We 've been instructed to escort you into the city .」
Catelyn Stark:「Instructed ? I do n't know who 's providing your instructions , but ...」
Guard:「Follow me , Lady Stark .」
Petyr Baelish:「Cat ! Go on . Go upstairs .」
Catelyn Stark:「You little worm ! You take me for some back - alley Sally you can drag into a ...」
Petyr Baelish:「I meant no disrespect to you of all people .」
Catelyn Stark:「How dare you bring me here ! Have you lost your mind ?」
Petyr Baelish:「No one will come looking for you here . Is n't that what like you wanted ? I 'm truly sorry ... about the locale .」
Catelyn Stark:「How did you know I was coming to King 's Landing ?」
Petyr Baelish:「A dear friend told me .」
Varys:「Lady Stark .」
Catelyn Stark:「Lord Varys .」
Varys:「To see you again after so many years is a blessing . Your poor hands .」
Catelyn Stark:「How did you know I was coming ?」
Varys:「Knowledge is my trade , my Lady . Did you bring the dagger with you , by any chance ? My little birds are everywhere . Even in the north . They whisper to me the strangest stories . Valyrian steel .」
Catelyn Stark:「Do you know whose dagger this is ?」
Varys:「I must admit I do not .」
Petyr Baelish:「Well well , this is an historic day . Something you do n't know that I do . There 's only one dagger like this in all of the Seven Kingdoms . It 's mine .」
Catelyn Stark:「Yours ?」
Petyr Baelish:「At least it was , until the tournament on Prince Joffrey 's last nameday . I bet on Ser Jaime in the jousting , as any sane man would . When the Knight of the Flowers unseated him , I lost this dagger .」
Catelyn Stark:「To whom ?」
Petyr Baelish:「Tyrion Lannister . The Imp .」

Alliser Thorne:「Grenn , show him what you farm boys are made of . If that were a real sword , you 'd be dead . Lord Snow here grew up in a castle spitting down on the likes of you . Pyp . Do you think Ned Stark 's b*st*rd bleeds like the rest of us ? Next ! Next ! Lord Snow , it appears you 're the least useless person here . Go clean yourselves up . There 's only so much I can stomach in a day .」
Tyrion Lannister:「A charming man .」
Jeor Mormont:「I do n't need him to be charming . I need him to turn this bunch of thieves and runaways into men of the Night 's Watch .」
Tyrion Lannister:「And how 's that going , Commander Mormont ?」
Jeor Mormont:「Slowly . A raven came for Ned Stark 's son .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Good news or bad ?」
Jeor Mormont:「Both .」
Grand Maester Pycelle:「Lord Stark . I meant to give you this earlier . So forgetful these days . A raven from Winterfell this morning .」
Petyr Baelish:「Good news ? Perhaps you 'd like to share it with your wife ?」

Eddard Stark:「My wife is in Winterfell .」
Petyr Baelish:「Is she ?
 I thought that she 'd be safest in here . One of several such establishments I own .」
Eddard Stark:「You 're a funny man . A very funny man .」
Catelyn Stark:「Ned !」
Petyr Baelish:「The Starks ... Quick tempers , slow minds .」
Grenn:「You broke my nose , b*st*rd !」
Jon Snow:「It 's an improvement .」
Grenn:「If we threw you over the Wall , wonder how long it 'd take you to hit .」
Pyp:「I wonder if they 'd find you before the wolves did .」
Grenn:「What 're you looking at , Half Man ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「I 'm looking at you . You 've got an interesting face . Very distinctive faces . All of you .」
Rast:「What do you care about our faces ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「It 's just I think they would look marvellous decorating spikes in King 's Landing . Perhaps I 'll write my sister , the Queen , about it .」
Grenn:「We 'll talk later , Lord Snow .」

Jon Snow:「Everybody knew what this place was and no one told me . No one but you . My father knew and left me to rot here at the Wall all the same .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Grenn 's father left him too ... Outside a farmhouse when he was three . Pyp was caught stealing a wheel of cheese . His little sister had n't eaten in three days . He was given a choice」
Jon Snow:「They hate me because I 'm better than they are .」
Tyrion Lannister:「It 's a lucky thing none of them were trained by a master - at - arms like your Ser Rodrik . I do n't imagine any of them have ever held a real sword before they came here . Your brother Bran . He 's woken up .」
narration:[SCENE_BREAK]
Petyr Baelish:「The mere suggestion that the Queen 's brother tried to kill your boy would be considered treason .」
Catelyn Stark:「We have proof . We have the blade .」
Petyr Baelish:「Which Lord Tyrion will say was stolen from him . The only man who could say otherwise has no throat , thanks to your boy 's wolf .」

Catelyn Stark:「Petyr has promised to help us find the truth . He 's like a little brother to me . He would never betray my trust .」
Petyr Baelish:「I 'll try to keep you alive , for her sake . A fool 's task , admittedly , but I 've never been able to refuse your wife anything .」
Catelyn Stark:「I wo n't forget this . You 're a true friend .」
Petyr Baelish:「Do n't tell anyone . I have a reputation to maintain .」
Cersei Baratheon:「How could you be so stupid ?」
Jaime Lannister:「Calm down .」
Cersei Baratheon:「He 's a child ... 10 years old . What were you thinking ?」
Jaime Lannister:「I was thinking of us . You 're a bit late to start complaining about it now . What has the boy told them ?」
Cersei Baratheon:「Nothing . He 's said nothing . He remembers nothing .」
Jaime Lannister:「Then what are you raving about ?」
Cersei Baratheon:「What if it comes back to him ? If he tells his father what he saw ...」
Jaime Lannister:「We 'll say he was lying . We 'll say he was dreaming . We 'll say whatever we like . I think we can outfox a 10-year - old .」
Cersei Baratheon:「And my husband ?」
Jaime Lannister:「I 'll go to war with him if I have to . They can write a ballad about us」
Cersei Baratheon:「Let me go .」
Jaime Lannister:「Never .」
Cersei Baratheon:「Let me go .」
Jaime Lannister:「The boy wo n't talk . And if he does , I 'll kill him . Him , Ned Stark , the King ... the whole bloody lot of them , until you and I are the only people left in this world .」
Catelyn Stark:「I wish I could see the girls .」
Eddard Stark:「It 's too dangerous .」
Catelyn Stark:「Just for a moment .」
Eddard Stark:「Until we know who our enemies are ...」
Catelyn Stark:「I know they did it , Ned . The Lannisters . In my bones , I know it .」
Eddard Stark:「Littlefinger 's right . I ca n't do anything without proof .」
Cersei Baratheon:「And if you find the proof ?」
Eddard Stark:「Then I bring it to Robert ... And hope he 's still the man I once knew . You watch yourself on the road , huh ? That temper of yours is a dangerous thing .」
Catelyn Stark:「My temper ? Gods be good , you nearly killed poor Littlefinger yesterday .」
Eddard Stark:「He still loves you .」
Catelyn Stark:「Does he ?」
Eddard Stark:「Off with you .」

Robert Baratheon:「It 's been a long time . But I still remember every face . You remember your first ?」
Barristan Selmy:「Of course , your Grace .」
Robert Baratheon:「Who was it ?」
Barristan Selmy:「A Tyroshi . Never learned the name .」
Robert Baratheon:「How 'd you do it ?」
Barristan Selmy:「Lance through the heart .」
Robert Baratheon:「Quick one . Lucky for you . Mine was some Tarly boy at the Battle of Summerhall . My horse took an arrow so I was on foot , slogging through the mud . He came running at me , this dumb high - born lad , thinking he could end the rebellion with the single swing of his sword . I knocked him down with the hammer . Gods , I was strong then . Caved in his breastplate . Probably shattered every rib he had . Stood over him , hammer in the air . Right before I brought it down he shouted , " Wait ! Wait . " They never tell you how they all sh1 t themselves . They do n't put that part in the songs . Stupid boy . Now the Tarlys bend the knee like everyone else . He could have lingered on the edge of the battle with the smart boys and today his wife would be making him miserable , his sons would be ingrates , and he 'd be waking three times in the night to piss into a bowl . Wine ! Lancel . Gods , what a stupid name . Lancel Lannister . Who named you ? Some halfwit with a stutter ? What are you doing ?」
Lancel Lannister:「It 's empty , your Grace .」
Robert Baratheon:「What do you mean it 's empty ?」
Lancel Lannister:「There 's no more wine .」
Robert Baratheon:「Is that what empty means ? So get more . Tell your cousin to get in here . Kingslayer ! Get in here . Surrounded by Lannisters . Every time I close my eyes I see their blond hair and their smug , satisfied faces . It must wound your pride , huh ? Standing out there like a glorified sentry . Jaime Lannister , son of the mighty Tywin ... Forced to mind the door while your King eats and drinks and sh1ts and f*cks . So come on . We 're telling war stories . Who was your first kill , not counting old men ?」
Jaime Lannister:「One of the outlaws in the Brotherhood .」
Barristan Selmy:「I was there that day . You were only a squire , 16 years old .」
Jaime Lannister:「You killed Simon Toyne with a counter riposte . Best move I ever saw .」
Barristan Selmy:「A good fighter , Toyne , but he lacked stamina .」
Robert Baratheon:「Your outlaw ... Any last words ?」
Jaime Lannister:「I cut his head off , so no .」

Robert Baratheon:「What about Aerys Targaryen ? What did the Mad King say when you stabbed him in the back ? I never asked . Did he call you a traitor ? Did he plead for a reprieve ?」
Jaime Lannister:「He said the same thing he 'd been saying for hours ... " Burn them all . " If that 's all , your Grace ...」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Do the Dothrakis buy their slaves ?」
Jorah Mormont:「The Dothraki do n't believe in money . Most of their slaves were given to them as gifts .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「From whom ?」
Jorah Mormont:「If you rule a city and you see the horde approaching , you have two choices」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Tell them all to stop .」
Jorah Mormont:「You want the entire horde to stop ? For how long ?」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Until I command them otherwise .」
Jorah Mormont:「You 're learning to talk like a Queen .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Not a Queen . A Khaleesi .」
Viserys Targaryen:「You dare ! You give commands to me ? To me ? You do not command the dragon . I am Lord of the Seven Kingdoms . I do n't take orders from savages or their sluts . Do you hear me ?」
Irri:「Rakharo ask if you want him dead , Khaleesi .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「No !」
Irri:「Rakharo say you should take ear , to teach respect .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「Please please , do n't hurt him . Tell him I do n't want my brother harmed .」
Viserys Targaryen:「Kill these Dothraki dogs ! I am your King !」
Jorah Mormont:「Shall we return to the Khalasar ?」
Rakharo:「You walk .」
Benjen Stark:「I wanted to be here when you saw it for the first time . I 'm leaving this morning .」
Jon Snow:「You 're leaving ?」
Benjen Stark:「I 'm the First Ranger . My job is out there . There have been disturbing reports .」
Jon Snow:「What kind of reports ?」
Benjen Stark:「The kind I do n't want to believe .」
Jon Snow:「I 'm ready . I wo n't let you down .」
Benjen Stark:「You 're not going . You 're no ranger , Jon .」
Jon Snow:「But I 'm better than every ...」
Benjen Stark:「Better than no one ! Here ... A man gets what he earns , when he earns it . We 'll speak when I return .」
Yoren:「A bear 's balls .」
Tyrion Lannister:「You 're joking ?」

Yoren:「And his brains and his guts , his lungs and his heart all fried in his own fat . When you 're a hundred miles north of the Wall and you ate your last meal a week ago , you leave nothing for the wolves .」
Tyrion Lannister:「And how do a bear 's balls taste ?」
Yoren:「A bit chewy . And what about you , my Lord ? What 's the strangest thing you 've eaten ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Do Dornish girls count ? So you roam the Seven Kingdoms , collaring pickpockets and horse thieves and bringing them here as eager recruits ?」
Yoren:「But it 's not all of 'em 's done bad things . Some of 'em 's just poor lads looking for steady feed . Some of 'em 's high - born lads looking for glory .」
Tyrion Lannister:「They have a better chance finding feed than glory .」
Benjen Stark:「The Night 's Watch is a joke to you , is it ? Is that what we are , Lannister ? An army of jesters in black ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「You do n't have enough men to be an army and aside from Yoren here , none of you are particularly funny .」

Benjen Stark:「I hope we 've provided you with some good stories to tell when you 're back in King 's Landing . But something to think about while you 're drinking your wine down there , enjoying your brothels ... Half the boys you 've seen training will die north of the Wall . Might be a wilding 's axe that gets them , might be sickness , might just be the cold . They die in pain . And they do it so plump little lords like you can enjoy their summer afternoons in peace and comfort .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Do you think I 'm plump ? Listen , Benjen ... May I call you Benjen ?」
Benjen Stark:「Call me what you like .」
Tyrion Lannister:「I 'm not sure what I 've done to offend you . I have great admiration for the Night 's Watch . I 've great admiration for you as First Ranger .」
Benjen Stark:「You know , my brother once told me that nothing someone says before the word " but " really counts .」
Tyrion Lannister:「But ... I do n't believe that giants and ghouls and White Walkers are lurking beyond the Wall . I believe that the only difference between us and the wildlings is that when the Wall went up , our ancestors happened to live on the right side of it .」

Benjen Stark:「You 're right . The wildlings are no different from us . A little rougher maybe . But they 're made of meat and bone . I know how to track them and I know how to kill them . It 's not the wildlings giving me sleepless nights . You 've never been north of the Wall , so do n't tell me what 's out there .」
Yoren:「Are you going below ? Keep well , keep warm .」
Benjen Stark:「Enjoy the capital , brother .」
Yoren:「I always do .」
Tyrion Lannister:「I think he 's starting to like me . " Going below " ?」
Yoren:「Into the tunnel and out the other side . He 'll be north of the Wall for a month or two .」
Tyrion Lannister:「So you 're heading down to King 's Landing too .」
Yoren:「Day after tomorrow . I get about half of my recruits from their dungeons .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Let 's share the road . I could use some decent company .」
Yoren:「I travel a bit on the grubby side , my Lord .」

Tyrion Lannister:「Not this time . We 'll be staying at the finest castles and inns . No one turns away a Lannister .」
Irri:「Yes , Khaleesi .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「What are you doing ?」
Irri:「When was last time you bleed , Khaleesi ? You change , Khaleesi . It 's a blessing from the Great Stallion .」
Jorah Mormont:「For a man on horseback , the curved blade is a good thing , easier to handle . It 's a good weapon for a Dothrakan . But a man in full plate ... the arakh wo n't get through the steel . That 's where the broadsword has the advantage . Designed for piercing plate .」
Rakharo:「Dothraki do n't wear steel dresses .」
Jorah Mormont:「Armor .」
Rakharo:「Armor . Armor make a man ... Vroz ?」
Jorah Mormont:「Slow .」
Rakharo:「Slow .」
Jorah Mormont:「It 's true , but it also keeps a man alive .」
Rakharo:「My father taught me how to fight . He taught me that speed defeats size .」

Jorah Mormont:「I 've heard that your father was a famous warrior .」
Rakharo:「He was bloodrider to Khal Bharbo . And your father , Jorah the Andal ? He was a warrior also ?」
Jorah Mormont:「He still is . A man of great honor . And I betrayed him .」
Irri:「The Khaleesi wants to eat something different tonight . Kill some rabbits .」
Rakharo:「There are no rabbits .」
Irri:「Find some ducks , she likes ducks .」
Rakharo:「Have you seen any ducks , woman ? No rabbits , no ducks . Do you have eyes in your head ? Do you ?」
Irri:「Dog then . I have seen many dogs .」
Jorah Mormont:「I do n't think she wants to eat dog .」
Irri:「The Khaleesi have baby inside her . It is true . She does not bleed for two moons . Her belly start to swell .」
Rakharo:「A blessing from the Great Stallion .」
Irri:「She does not want to eat horse .」
Jorah Mormont:「I 'll have the boys butcher a goat for supper . I need to ride to Qohor .」
Rhakaro:「We ride for Vaes Dothrak .」
Jorah Mormont:「Do n't worry . I 'll catch you . The horde 's easy to find .」
Jon Snow:「Do n't stand so still . It 's harder to hit a moving target . Except for you . You move too much . I could just hold my sword out and let you do the work for me .」
Maester Aemon:「How many winters have you seen , Lord Tyrion ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「Eight ... no , nine .」

Maester Aemon:「All of them brief ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「They say the winter of my birth was three years long , Maester Aemon .」
Maester Aemon:「This summer has lasted nine . But reports from the Citadel tell us the days grow shorter . The Starks are always right eventually」
Jeor Mormont:「We 've been capturing wildlings , more every month . They 're fleeing south . The ones who flee ... say they 've seen the White Walkers .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Yes , and the fishermen of Lannisport say they see mermaids .」
Jeor Mormont:「One of our own rangers swore he saw them kill his companions . He swore it right up to the moment Ned Stark chopped his head off .」
Maester Aemon:「The Night 's Watch is the only thing standing between the realm and what lies beyond . And it has become an army of undisciplined boys and tired old men . There are less than a thousand of us now . We ca n't man the other castles on the Wall . We ca n't properly patrol the wilderness . We 've barely enough resources to keep our lads armed and fed .」
Jeor Mormont:「Your sister sits by the side the King . Tell her we need help .」

Maester Aemon:「When winter does come , gods help us all if we 're not ready .」
Daenerys Targaryen:「It 's a boy .」
Khal Drogo:「How do you know ?」
Daenerys Targaryen:「I know .」
Jon Snow:「I 'm sorry to see you leave , Lannister .」
Tyrion Lannister:「It 's either me or this cold . And it does n't appear to be going anywhere .」
Jon Snow:「Will you stop at Winterfell on your way South ?」
Tyrion Lannister:「I expect I will . Gods know there are n't many feather beds between here and King 's Landing .」
Jon Snow:「If you see my brother Bran , tell him I miss him . Tell him I 'd visit if I could .」
Tyrion Lannister:「Of course .」
Jon Snow:「He 'll never walk again .」
Tyrion Lannister:「If you 're going to be a cripple , it 's better to be a rich cripple . Take care , Snow .」
